AbstractInvestigations have been carried out on properties of coatings, differing by their pigmentation and binder, and applied on different chemical pre-treatments of the steel surface. Paints based on alkyd and alkyd-melamine binders, pigmented with zinc phosphate and modified basic zinc phosphate were applied on amorphous and crystalline phosphated steel surface and, for the comparison purpose, on degreased steel surface. The effect of the binder, the pigment and the pre-treatment of the steel surface on the protective properties of the coatings were determined by measurements of adhesion, water absorption and water permeability and by results obtained in salt spray and Prohesion tests. Coatings based on alkyd binder show a lower damage degree and good retention of adhesion in corrosion conditions, in spite of a higher water absorption and water permeability and a lower initial adhesive strength. Protective properties of coatings have been found to be highly dependent upon the substrate pre-treatment. Chemical pre-treatment of the steel substrate increases the protective properties of the system, which is particularly evident in the case of crystalline phosphating and the coating pigmented with modified basic zinc phosphate. This phenomenon can be explained by the synergism between this phosphate pigment with crystalline phosphate layer.
Highlights•Novel CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composites were synthesized via chemical methods.•Enhanced visible-light photocatalytic activities were evaluated for RhB degradation.•CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composite promotes charge separation/transfer property.•Visible-light photocatalytic mechanism of CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 was discussed.AbstractThe CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composites with various Fe concentrations (0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 5.0 and 6.0 mol%) was synthesized by homogeneous precipitation and hydrothermal methods. The as-synthesized samples were characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), Brunauer Emmett and Teller (BET)-specific surface area, field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and UV–visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS). Fe-doping into InVO4 crystal induces the distortion of the crystalline structure, the transformation of InVO4 morphology, and the new energy subband level generation of Fe between the CB and VB edge of InVO4. The electron excitation from the VB to Fe orbitals results in the decreased band gap and the extended absorption of visible-light, and thus enhances its photocatalytic performance. Visible-light-driven photocatalytic degradation of Rhodamine B (RhB) dye in water was used to evaluate the photocatalytic performance of CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composites. The results revealed that there is an optimum Fe (5.0 mol %) doping level. The composite with the optimum doping level obtains high photocatalytic activity of CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composite compared to pure CeO2 and pure InVO4 host. The increase of photocatalytic activity of CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composite was ascribed to the surface area, crystal defect, and band gap energy. Moreover, the photocatalytic enhancement is also because iron ions act as a trapping site, which results in the higher separation efficiency of photogenerated electrons and holes pairs in the CeO2/InVO4 composite. The evaluation of radical scavengers confirmed that hydroxyl radical was the main active species during the photodegradation of RhB. These synergistic effects are responsible for the enhanced photocatalytic activity of CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composite. Furthermore, the possible enhanced photocatalytic mechanism of the CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composite was also proposed based on the calculation of band position.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (243KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe effect of the ratio of the pigment volume concentration (PVC) to the critical pigment volume concentration (CPVC), denoted hereafter by Λ, on the corrosion resistance properties of paint films has been investigated by ac impedance, potential-time measurements, cathodic disbonding and traditional accelerated tests. Painted mild steel electrodes were studied during exposure to 3.5% NaCl solution for up to 60 days. Paints based on epoxy resin were prepared at different Λ values (0.73, 0.80, 0.88, 0.93, 0.98, 1.08, 1.15 and 1.24). It is concluded that, for all systems, corrosion resistance can be affected greatly by the PVC/CPVC ratio and the conclusions offered by each of the techniques used are quite similar.
AbstractThere is an industry-wide need for a rapid oxidation bench test that can be used to establish the oxidation stability of engine oils, greases, transmission and hydraulic fluids, turbine oils and vegetable oils. The oxidation stability of lubricants as estimated by high-pressure differential scanning calorimeter (PDSC) has long been of interest to the thermal science community. A group of industrial lubricating oils were used to establish a relationship between certain standard variables and oxidation induction times (OITs) by PDSC. The variables studied were temperature, pressure, heating rate, sample mass, sample pan types, soluble catalyst concentration and gas flow rate. Several oxidation induction time methods were developed to rank a series of lubricating oils. These results correlated well with an oxidation stability test (ASTM D943) used widely to characterize industrial oils. The new method is rapid, employs a soluble metal catalyst and requires only microliter samples for testing with good precision.
AbstractTwo modified Mg-Al hydrotalcites (MHTs), (MHT-pAB and MHT-NO2) were incorporated into mortar (with different w/c ratios) in two different ways: (1) as one of the mixing components in bulk mortar; (2) as part of cement paste coating of the reinforcing steel. Accelerated chloride migration, cyclic wetting-drying and diffusion tests were performed to investigate their effect on reinforcement corrosion. The results indicated that MHTs could be promising alternatives for preventing chloride-induced corrosion when an appropriate dosage is adopted and applied in a proper way, particularly, replacing 5% mass of cement by MHT-pAB in bulk mortar or as a coating of reinforcing steel (MHT-pAB/MHT-NO2 to replace 20% mass of cement). The effect of MHT-pAB on time-to-corrosion initiation (TTC) of reinforcing steel was estimated using the DuraCrete model. It was found that the incorporation of 5% MHT-pAB in bulk mortar led to a more than double TTC relative to reference mortar without MHTs.
AbstractThe effect of some quaternary N-heterocyclic compounds on the corrosion of mild steel in solutions of phosphoric acid (H3PO4) has been investigated in relation to the concentration of the inhibitor and acid as well as temperature by various monitoring corrosion techniques. Surface morphology was studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Results obtained revealed that these compounds are good mixed-type inhibitors without changing the mechanism of the corrosion process. In general, at constant acid concentration, inhibitor efficiency increased with concentration of the inhibitor. On the other hand, at constant inhibitor concentration, inhibitor efficiency decreased with concentration of the acid up to a critical concentration above which it started to increase. The studied compounds appeared to function through general adsorption following the thermodynamic–kinetic adsorption isotherm. The thermodynamic parameters were determined and discussed. A quantitative correlation between inhibitor structure and inhibition efficiency was discussed.
AbstractExploitation of the metabolic capabilities of the genus Sphingomonas could provide important commercial benefits to biotechnology. Recent advances have demonstrated that these organisms have unique abilities to degrade refractory contaminants, to serve as bacterial antagonists to phytopathogenic fungi, and to secrete the highly useful gellan exopolysaccharides. Unfortunately, Sphingomonas are also animal pathogens and can readily degrade the copper pipes in drinking water distribution systems. The closely related Zymomonas could be important for commercial ethanol production. These Gram-negative aerobic bacteria are characterized by an outer membrane that contains glycosphingolipids, but lacks lipopolysaccharide. Their distribution in environmental samples has not been systematically examined as yet.
Highlights•Model developed to incorporate the effect of contaminants on MEG volume measurement.•MEG salt contaminants simulated using sodium chloride.•MEG volume fraction correlated to refractive index, electrical conductivity and TDS.•The proposed models were found to accurate between 10 and 90% vol. MEG.AbstractThe estimation of Mono Ethylene Glycol (MEG) concentration is an essential criterion during the industrial regeneration of MEG to evaluate the efficiency of regeneration process and to control the concentration of MEG reinjected at the wellhead. Although many laboratory methods to determine MEG concentration exist, their application may be costly in terms of the time required to perform sampling and laboratory analysis. For this reason, an alternative method for determination of MEG concentrations has been proposed. This method can be performed on-site utilizing physical properties that can be readily measured using portable measurement devices including refractive index (nD), electrical conductivity (EC) and total dissolved solids (TDS).The volume fraction (Fvm), nD, EC, and TDS of MEG solutions have been measured at (283.15, 298.15, and 323.15) K, (10–100) vol. %, and at (0, 0.125, 0.25, 0.5, 1.0) M NaCl total volume of solution) ionic strength (IS). The experimental results were then correlated to develop a simplistic model capable of estimating the volume fraction of MEG mixtures at varying ionic strengths. The proposed models will therefore allow a quick and convenient method for the determination of MEG concentrations in the field to quickly identify undesirable changes in produced lean MEG concentration.
AbstractMetal-matrix composite coatings of lead–cobalt (Pb–Co) and lead–cobalt oxide (Pb–Co3O4) were electrodeposited onto the surface of a conventional PbCaSn anode in an effort to develop an improved anode for use in base metal electrowinning. The developed coated anodes were examined in terms of their electrochemical and physical stability over several days of polarisation for the evolution of oxygen under typical copper electrowinning conditions. Results from scanning electron microscopy have shown that fresh Pb–Co and Pb–Co3O4 composite coated anodes have rougher surface than conventional (uncoated) PbCaSn anodes but the apparent differences in surface area become insignificant after several days of polarisation under typical copper electrowinning conditions. The Tafel slope on the Pb–Co anode was 92 mV dec− 1 and on the Pb–Co3O4 it was 90 mV dec− 1, which is significantly less than the 122 mV dec− 1 measured on the conventional PbCaSn anodes. The composite anodes exhibited consistently lower oxygen evolution potentials than the conventional type and the potential remained relatively stable throughout the polarisation period. The reduction in the operating anode potential can be attributed to the presence of cobalt in the surface layer while the decrease in the Tafel slope shows that this reduction can be related to a change in the mechanism of the oxygen evolution reaction. Corrosion rates estimated from 16 h tests showed that the composite coated anodes are more stable than the conventional type during short periods of operation. It was also observed that for the Pb–Co coated anode, both the rate of corrosion and the overpotential for the oxygen evolution reaction can be further reduced by the addition of organic additives such as thiourea.Highlights► Produced were new anodes that evolve oxygen at lower overpotential than conventional PbCaSn. ► The anodes were produced by electrodeposition of low-cost lead-cobalt composite coatings. ► Tafel slopes were 92 and 90 mV dec− 1 with Pb-Co and Pb-Co3O4, versus 122 mV dec− 1 with PbCaSn. ► The composite coated anodes show promising stability operated for 7 days in 180 g dm− 3 H2SO4
Highlights
•Sulfidation enhanced ZVI reactivity toward various dyes by 1.3–4.0 folds.•Increasing pH from 4.0 to 10.0 retarded AR27 removal by ZVIbm<math><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">bm</mi></mrow></msup></math> .•The decolorization rate of AR27 increased linearly with elevated S-ZVI bm dosage.•Sulfidation treatment did not change the mechanism of dyes removal by ZVI.
AbstractSulfidation has been considered to be a promising method to improve the performance of zerovalent iron (ZVI). In this study, taking different kinds of dyes (including azo, anthraquinone and triphenylmethane dyes) as model contaminants, the feasibility of applying sulfidation (herein sulfidated ZVI was synthesized by ball-milling with ZVI and elemental sulfur (S-ZVI bm<math><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">bm</mi></mrow></msup></math>)) to enhance the reactivity of ZVI was systematically investigated. The results showed that, S-ZVIbm<math><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">bm</mi></mrow></msup></math> could enhance dyes removal efficiency from 52.8–79.4% to 69.5%–100% within 150 min and the ratio of rate constants for dyes decolorization by S-ZVIbm<math><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">bm</mi></mrow></msup></math> to that of unsulfidated ZVI generally fell in the range of 1.3–4. Although the decolorization process of Acid Red 27 (AR27) by S-ZVIbm<math><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">bm</mi></mrow></msup></math> could be inhibited when solution pH values increased from 4.0 to 10.0, S-ZVIbm<math><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">bm</mi></mrow></msup></math> still achieved higher removal rate and efficiency than unsulfidated ZVI. For Pri-ZVI and ZVIbm<math><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">bm</mi></mrow></msup></math>, the decolorization rate of AR27 increased linearly with iron dosage. However, it was interesting to observe that the kinetic constants of AR27 removal by S-ZVIbm<math><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">bm</mi></mrow></msup></math> increased more sharply than unsulfidated ZVI, implying more available reactive sites could be provided after sulfidation treatment. In sum, from a wide-spectrum perspective, this study provided some insights into the effects of sulfidation on ZVI performance toward various dyes removal.Graphical abstract
Download high-res image (185KB)Download full-size image

Highlights•Novel cathode of carbon felt coated with iron oxides prepared by Fe3 + electrodeposition•Cathode used for heterogeneous EF and PEF treatments of Malachite Green solutions•Faster decolorization and mineralization by heterogeneous PEF•Maximum 98% mineralization achieved for a 50 mg L− 1 dye solution at 21.7 mA cm− 2•Large loss of iron oxides with lesser oxidation power after 10 cycles of heterogeneous EFAbstractA novel carbon felt cathode coated with iron oxides has been prepared by Fe3 + electrodeposition. The deposited iron content was analyzed by X-ray fluorescence, the composition of iron oxides formed by X-ray diffraction and the morphology of deposits by scanning electron microscopy and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy. Freshly prepared electrodes were used as air-diffusion cathodes in a stirred tank reactor with a boron-doped diamond (BDD) anode to degrade solutions of Malachite Green dye at pH 3.0 by heterogeneous electro-Fenton (EF) and photoelectro-Fenton (PEF) processes. Oxidizing agents were hydroxyl radicals formed at the BDD surface from water oxidation and at the cathode surface or in the bulk from Fenton's reaction between deposited or leached Fe2 + and electrogenerated H2O2 in both treatments, along with the photo-oxidation by UVA light in heterogeneous PEF. The decolorization and mineralization of dye solutions were faster for the latter process due to the photolysis of Fe(III) complexes with initial oxalate and generated carboxylic acids. TOC decay always obeyed a pseudo-first-order kinetics. The increase in dye concentration decelerated the decolorization efficiency and mineralization rate, but enhanced the mineralization current efficiency. A test of 10 consecutive cycles of heterogeneous EF treatment of 50 mg L− 1 of Malachite Green at 21.7 mA cm− 2 showed a gradual loss of iron oxides from the cathode with decreasing dye mineralization rate. An improvement of the stability of the novel cathode is then necessary for its reuse with a better keeping of the oxidation power of heterogeneous EF and PEF treatments of organic pollutants in waters.
AbstractIn the present work, polyaniline/clay nanocomposite (PAniCN) was synthesized by chemical oxidative polymerization of aniline monomers in the presence of Closite30B powders. XRD and SEM examinations were used to examine the intercalation and morphologies of PAniCN, respectively. Electrical conductivity test showed that the conductivity of final PAniCN was higher than pristine PAni by one order of magnitude. Synthesized nanocomposite was added to the zinc rich ethyl silicate primer to modify its barrier properties. The corrosion protection performances of modified and unmodified primers were evaluated using open circuit potential (OCP) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) in 3.5% sodium chloride solution for a period of 120 days. It was found that the modified primer had higher barrier properties than original primer. After 120 days of immersion, resistance of modified and unmodified primers reaches 5.565 × 103 Ω cm2 and 6.056 × 102 Ω cm2 respectively. The OCP of both primers were lower than −800 mV/SCE during the immersion. Besides, the OCP of modified primer was higher than the original primer due to the passivation and barrier effects of PAniCN. Results revealed that the performance of modified primer improved strongly.
AbstractGalvalloy (4.5% Al 95.5% Zn) coatings were produced on a continuous coil coating line at Corus Colors’ Shotton works with varying metallic coating thickness from 7.8 μm (120 g m−2) to 48 μm (325 g m−2) controlled using air knives. An overall decrease in aluminium content from 5.1% to 4.5 wt% and a primary zinc volume fraction increase from 16.2% to 32.8% occurred as the coating thickness is decreased. This reflects greater nucleation in thinner coatings and some removal of Al enriched molten phases. The scanning vibrating electrode technique (SVET) was used to show that increasing the coating thickness from 7.8 to 48 μm resulted in a decrease in the level of zinc removed during corrosion from a 20 mm exposed cut edge from 530 to 220 μg in the 24 h exposure to 5% NaCl solution. The same trend was also observed when external zinc runoff measurements were made at the Port Talbot weathering site. The increasing corrosion observed at lower coating weights results from greater undercutting of these coatings that are further away from a eutectic composition and an increasing tendency for crevice driven corrosion brought about through primary zinc dendrite interconnectivity.
Highlights•The work deals with the photoelectrochemistry of the new hetero-junction Bi2S3/TiO2.•The hetero-junction Bi2S3/TiO2 is elaborated by precipitation.•The enhanced photoactivity is due to the effective dispersion of Bi2S3.•The OG oxidation follows a pseudo first-order kinetic model.•The photoactivity is enhanced under solar irradiation because of TiO2 activation.AbstractThe preparation and characterization of the hetero-junctions x%Bi2S3/TiO2 (x = 1, 5, 10 and 15%) and their photocatalytic performances for the degradation of orange G (OG) under visible light irradiation are reported. The hetero-junctions are synthesized by precipitation method from bismuth nitrate on TiO2. The forbidden bands of Bi2S3 and TiO2 are found to be 1.54 and 3.43 eV respectively. Bi2S3 acts as sensitizer and exhibits n-type conductivity evidenced from the anodic photocurrent and capacitance measurements. The degradation of OG is confirmed by spectrophotometry and chemical oxygen demand (COD). The photocatalytic efficiency of the hetero-junction is dependent on the proportion of Bi2S3. Under visible light, a fast degradation is obtained on 10% Bi2S3/TiO2 and the OG degradation (10 mg L−1) follows a first order kinetic with a rate constant of 0.32 h−1. The performance of the prepared hetero-junction is better than that of the direct mixture of compounds due to intimate contact Bi2S3/TiO2. Under solar light, the photoactivity is strongly enhanced with a rate constant of 3.42 h−1.
Highlights•Maifanite/Mg-LDHs efficiently enhanced the removal performance of Cd(II).•Adsorption capacity and microbial effect were enhanced after Mg-LDHs modification.•The richness and diversity of bacterial community were improved after modification.•Maifanite/Mg-LDHs can be a cost-effective substrate for Cd(II) removal in CRIS.AbstractTo improve the adsorption performance of Cd(II) by maifanite in constructed rapid infiltration systems (CRIS), Mg-layered double hydroxides (MgAl-LDHs, MgFe-LDHs) are prepared by a co-precipitation method and in-situ coated on the surface of original maifanite. Characterization of the successful LDHs-coating modification is realized by the following: scanning electron microscope (SEM), energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS), X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET). In the purification experiments, the average removal rates of Cd(II) were 97.66% for maifanite/MgAl-LDHs and 97.54% for maifanite/MgFe-LDHs, approximately 11% greater than for the original maifanite. Isothermal adsorption experiments and adsorption kinetic experiments were conducted to explore the Cd(II) adsorption mechanism. The modified maifanite demonstrated a higher Langmuir adsorption capacity and stronger surface bond energies compared to the original maifanite. The adsorption type of Cd(II) by maifanite/Mg-LDHs and original maifanite was monolayer adsorption based mainly on chemical adsorption. Furthermore, the extracellular polymeric substances and dehydrogenase activities of the microorganisms were measured and analyzed to study the effect of microorganisms on the removal of Cd(II) in the test columns. High-throughput sequencing technology was also applied to analyze the composition and diversity of bacterial communities. Based on a simple estimation, the synthesis cost of maifanite/MgAl-LDHs was only ¥ 0.33/Kg. In brief, maifanite/Mg-LDHs is an efficient and economical substrate for a CRIS for Cd(II) removal.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (185KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•First inter-seasonal PPCPs' study in New Zealand's wastewater treatment plant.•Significant mass load of antibiotics discharged to the environment.•Bardenpho and MBR showed comparable removal efficiencies.•Correlations between PPCPs' occurrence, removal and wastewater quality parameters.AbstractSeasonal variations in the concentrations and fate of 20 selected pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) were investigated over one year in a wastewater treatment plant in New Zealand, which relies on a membrane bioreactor (MBR) and Bardenpho as parallel processes for its secondary treatment. Results showed that all of the monitored PPCPs were detected in the wastewater influent. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) and caffeine were predominant in the influent, whereas in the effluent, β-blockers and benzotriazole were present at significant concentrations. Total PPCPs' concentration in the influent was found to be 130 μg/L. Average removal efficiency was found to be ≥ 99% for acetaminophen, caffeine, TCEP, naproxen, and ibuprofen, whereas <50% of trimethoprim, metoprolol, and benzotriazole were removed. Contrary to the existing literature, no significant differences were found in the removal of PPCPs through MBR and Bardenpho processes, hinting that optimally operated Bardenpho can be equally effective in the removal of emerging contaminants as MBR. The occurrence and removal efficiencies of PPCPs were found to exhibit significant seasonal variations, with the highest influent concentrations of PPCPs reported in autumn and winter. Heavy rainfall had an insignificant impact on PPCPs' removal efficiencies although it resulted in much-diluted concentrations of PPCPs in the influent. Spearman's correlation analysis showed significant correlations between PPCPs' mass loads in the influent, wastewater quality parameters, and environmental factors. It was also found that, except sulfamethoxazole, ecotoxicity risks were minimal for the rest of the monitored PPCPs in wastewater effluent.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (159KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Carboxymethyl starch (CMS) as “Green” antiscalant was prepared simply.•The effects of the structural factors of CMS on scale inhibition were evaluated.•CMS with higher substitution degree owns higher scale-inhibition efficiency.•Decrease of the molecular weight would evidently reduce the required CMS dose.•CMS can disturb CaCO3 crystal growth via chelating and complexing effects.Abstract“Green” antiscalants are gaining increased interest because of their environment-friendliness. In this work, various samples of carboxymethyl starch (CMS), with different substitution degrees of carboxymethyl groups and molecular weight were designed and prepared. The structures of these CMS samples were characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, 1H nuclear magnetic resonance, and viscosity. CMS was used as a green antiscalant for the inhibition of the growth and formation of calcium carbonate (CaCO3) scale, as evaluated by a static test in laboratory scale. Apart from the environmental parameters, effects of structural factors of CMS, including the substitution degree of carboxymethyl groups and molecular weight, on its scale-inhibition performance were extensively studied. Results showed that increased substitution degree of carboxymethyl groups and decreased molecular weight of CMS samples favored the distortion of CaCO3 crystal growth through chelating effects and improved the scale-inhibition efficiency. The morphology and crystal form of CaCO3 scale were characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD), respectively, to further investigate the scale-inhibition mechanisms of CMS.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (181KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Methane derived authigenic carbonates in the Northern Apennines (Italy).•Geochemistry of carbonate chimneys and slabs and of the hosting marine sediments.•Anaerobic methane oxidation and sulphate reduction promote carbonate precipitation.•Dolomite cements indicate precipitation in sulphate-depleted pore waters.•Secondary alteration of carbonates due fluid leakage after their formation.AbstractA remarkable exposure of carbonate pipe-like and slab concretions occurs along the Enza riverbanks on the Northern Apennines foothills (Italy). Based upon geochemical and field evidences, their genesis has been attributed to microbial-governed carbonate precipitation from hydrocarbon-enriched fluids. The pipe-like concretions are thus interpreted as former conduits (chimneys) marking sites of methane ascent onto the seafloor. The resulting Enza River chimney field is arranged in a palisade fashion, a rare example of such. Mineralogical and petrographic analyses of some chimneys and slabs document that the dominant cement is dolomite. Although the chimneys show a rather homogeneous texture, a clear zonation is observed in the relative distribution of major and minor elements in their internal and external parts. The occurrence of sulphide minerals in the stratigraphically upper samples indicates possible renewal of fluids leakage after a major erosive event.
AbstractIn this study, the characteristic and filtration behaviour of a newly developed ceramic nanofiltration membrane was studied and compared to other commercial ceramic nanofiltration membranes currently available. It could be shown that it was possible to produce a ceramic membrane with separation properties in the nanofiltration range and with permeability rates clearly superior to that of polymer nanofiltration membranes. The ceramic membrane was used in tests involving the treatment of textile wastewater, alkaline solutions from bottle washing machines and pickling bath solutions.
Highlights•Two hydrazones have investigated as corrosion inhibitors for mild steel in HCl solution.•They show good corrosion inhibition efficiency.•Potentiodynamic study indicates that they act as mixed type inhibitors.•The adsorption of inhibitors obeys Langmuir adsorption isotherm.•DFT and molecular dynamic simulation results are in good agreement with that of experimental results.AbstractTwo hydrazide derivatives namely N′-(4-Hydroxybezylidene)nicotinic hydrazone (HBNH) and N′-(4-methylybezylidene)nicotinic hydrazone (MBNH) have been investigated as corrosion inhibitors for mild steel in 1 M HCl using electrochemical, weight loss, FE-SEM, AFM, quantum chemical calculation and molecular dynamic simulation methods. They show good corrosion inhibition efficiency; with the inhibition efficiency of MBNH being higher than that of HBNH. The polarisation results indicate that both the inhibitors act as mixed type inhibitors. They follow Langmuir adsorption isotherm. Quantum chemical parameters of the inhibitors have been calculated using DFT method. Interaction energies derived from molecular dynamics simulation are in agreement with experimental results.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (71KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•We investigate the effect of ceria content on corrosion resistance of silane coating.•Microscopic images explain longer durability of the coating contain the lowest ceria.•The EIS results confirm the lower ceria content results in better barrier properties.AbstractThis work investigates the effect of the ceria nanoparticle concentration on the morphology and electrochemical behavior of cerium–silane hybrid coatings deposited on electro-galvanized steel substrates. The substrates were pre-treated with 3-glycidoxypropyl-trimethoxysilane and bisphenol A, modified with cerium ion-activated CeO2 nanoparticles. The morphology of the coating before and after corrosion tests was examined using atomic force microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The results indicate the formation of nanostructured surfaces with relatively uniform thicknesses and nanoparticle distribution. Microscopic observations explain the increased durability of the silane coating doped with the lowest content of activated ceria nanoparticles after short-term corrosion tests (456 h). The corrosion behavior of the sol–gel coatings was also investigated using natural salt spray tests, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and potentiodynamic polarization tests. The results show that the concentration of nanoparticles has a significant impact on the barrier properties of the silane films, which are improved for films with lower nanoparticle contents.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
Highlights•Pharmaceutical pollutants as emerging class of toxic pollutants.•Fenton, electro-Fenton, photo-Fenton processes: Safe, Cheap and environmental benign.•Controllable parameters for effective degradation of pharmaceutical pollutants.•Heterogeneous photo-Fenton reaction better than homogenous.•Focus on coupled Fenton and biological oxidation systems.AbstractThe voluminous anthropogenic activities and non-regulated discharge of emerging pharmaceutical pollutants have led to deterioration of water quality characteristics and shortage of potable water. One of most ubiquitous problems is that the pharmaceutical pollutants are slowly developing resistance in pathogens, which increases the risks manifold. Conventional water treatment methods and technologies have been known to be inadequate for elimination of recalcitrant and emerging pollutants. Advanced oxidation processes have been exploited to the most for mineralizing the pollutants with some limitations especially toxic metal based catalysts and secondary pollution. However Fenton-based systems are considered to be safer as they utilize non-toxic chemicals. Homogeneous Fenton processes suffer from limitations as limited pH operational range, generation of Fe containing sludge etc. have shifted focus to heterogeneous systems. This review focusses on removal of pharmaceutical pollutants by homogeneous and heterogeneous Fenton, electro-Fenton, sono-Fenton, photo-Fenton and photo-electro-Fenton processes using nano-catalysts. Various types of new pharmaceutical pollutants, their emergence, characteristics and toxicity have been discussed to have an insight into quantity and variety. New Fenton-like catalysts have been designed and used for degradation of pollutants and high mineralization is also achieved in a wide pH-range. In addition Fenton catalysts capable of showing high mineralization using solar light have been prepared by various methods with and without iron based materials. In addition in this review we have also focused on complexities related to removal of pharmaceutical effluents and how they are addressed by Fenton systems. The review aims to assist researchers and engineers to gain fundamental understandings and critical view of Fenton process and its optimization processes, and hopefully with the knowledge it could bring new opportunities for the optimization and future development of Fenton process. The key advances in Fenton catalysts are innovations in design of ligands, junction designing for effective radical generation, reaction engineering, hydro-dynamical effects and complete mineralization. The combinations and coupling of biological oxidation, semiconductor photocatalysis with Fenton process for high performance pharmaceutical pollutants removal in pilot-scale experiments have been discussed and evaluated.
Highlights•Preparation of nanohybrid particles as corrosion inhibitors.•Formation of the nanohybrid particles/PVAc emulsion composites.•Characterization of the prepared materials.•Incorporation of the formed nanohybrid particles/PVAc emulsion composites into different paint formulations.•Measurements of the chemical, basic as well as anticorrosion properties of the coated films.AbstractNovel anticorrosive emulsion-type paints were prepared by utilizing organic/inorganic nanohybrid particles (nHPs) of composition (1:1) based on polyaniline (PANI) and nanosilica. Polyaniline (PANI) and nanosilica were synthesized via chemical oxidative and sol–gel polymerization techniques respectively. The prepared materials were characterized via (gel permeation chromatography (GPC), infra red (FT-IR), transmission electron microscope (TEM) and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC)). The binder used in this context is polyvinyl acetate (PVAc). Nanohybrid particles/PVAc emulsion composites (nHPs ECs) were simply formed by individual mixing of the prepared neat PANI and nHPs of composition (1:1) with PVAc to produce the corresponding nanohybrid particles/PVAc emulsion composites EC1 and EC2 respectively. The chemical and basic properties including (acid and alkali resistance, adhesion, washability, gloss, opacity, whiteness, hardness, impact, and weathering) as well as the anticorrosion properties of the blank paint films and the paint films containing neat PANI and nHPs of different concentrations (5%, 10%, and 15%) were investigated and evaluated. The obtained experimental results revealed that the presence of nHPs in the blank paint are highly enhanced both basic and anticorrosion properties of the coated films.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
Highlights•FeS-coated Fe0 (Fes@Fe0) particles were prepared via a facile controllable method.•Both elemental and direct imaging confirmed the core-shell structure of Fes@Fe0.•FeS@Fe0 offered higher reactivity and reactive longevity than either FeS or Fe0.•FeS@Fe0 worked well at pH 5.5–9.0 and at high concentrations of bicarbonate and DOM.•FeS@Fe0 removes U(VI) through adsorption and reduction with Fe0 being main e-source.AbstractSulfur-modified zero valent iron (S-ZVI) particles have been reported to show improved reactivity and selectivity than conventional ZVI. However, current methods for ZVI sulfidation do not fully utilize the advantages of the material, and S-ZVI has not been tested for U(VI) immobilization. In this work, we synthesized a new type of FeS-modified ZVI core-shell particles (FeS@Fe0) through a facile two-step reaction approach, and then tested for reductive sequestration of U(VI) in water. X-ray diffraction, Scanning transmission electron microscopy, and physical property analyses confirmed the formation of the core-shell structure, surface compositions and magnetic properties. Batch kinetic tests showed that FeS@Fe0 with an Fe0/FeS molar ratio of 1:1 offered the highest U(VI) reduction rate, prolonged reactive life than pristine ZVI, and the reduced uranium was most resistant to re-oxidation when exposed to oxygen. The retarded first-order kinetic model was able to adequately interpret the experimental rate data. FeS@Fe0 performed well over the pH range 5.5–9.0, with higher pH more favoring the reaction. High concentrations (5–10 mg/L) of humic acid, bicarbonate (1–5 mM) and Ca2+ (1 mM) showed only modest inhibition to the U(VI) reduction. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and extraction studies indicated that U(VI) was immobilized via both direct adsorption and reductive precipitation, where Fe0 was the main electron source, with Fe0, sorbed Fe(II) and structural Fe(II) acting as the electron donors. FeS@Fe0 may serve as an improved material for efficient immobilization of U(VI) and other redox-active contaminants in water.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (101KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•ZVI coupled with H2O2 could remove aniline, Sb and Cr simultaneously.•Aniline was degraded by OH but Sb, Cr removal did not depend on Fenton.•Fe(0) corrosion promoted by H2O2 and in-situ generated nano iron(hydr)oxides.•Nano iron(hydr)oxides had abundant adsorption and co-precipitation sites.•Sb and Cr was mainly removed as the states of Sb(III) and Cr(III).AbstractAniline, antimony (Sb) and chromium (Cr) are typical and regulated co-contaminants in textile wastewater, but their removal was often investigated individually. In this work, simultaneous removal of aniline, Sb and Cr by ZVI coupled with H2O2 was studied. With the dosage of 0.5 g L−1 ZVI and 2 mM H2O2, aniline, Sb and Cr can be removed completely at pH 3. Experiment with iso-propanol as the radical scavenger confirmed that OH derived from Fenton reaction accounts for aniline degradation, but not for Sb and Cr removal. H2O2 accelerated Fe(0) corrosion and generated the nanoscale iron(hydro)oxides. Aniline was degraded by OH first and then the degradation products were removed by iron(hydro)oxides via adsorption and co-precipitation. Both Fe(0) and iron(hydro)oxides were responsible for Sb and Cr removal, yet iron(hydro)oxides were identified as the major contributor. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy analysis demonstrated that Sb and Cr were removed mainly as the states of Sb(III) and Cr(III). The real textile wastewater investigation confirmed that ZVI coupled with H2O2 can eliminate aniline, Sb and Cr effectively, which has important implications for the advanced treatment of textile wastewater.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (234KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•We describe the preservation of the largest known accumulation of fossil cetaceans.•They show an excellent preservation, both articulated and disarticulated skeletons.•Compared to modern whale carcasses, these fossils show no evidence of scavenging.•Sedimentologic and taphonomic evidence suggests very high rates of sedimentation.•Excellent preservation and abundance indicate that this deposit is a fossil-lagerstätte.AbstractThe Pisco Formation in Peru contains abundant fossil cetaceans in middle Miocene to lower Pliocene sandstone, siltstone, and tuffaceous and diatomaceous mudstone. Fossil whales are especially abundant in the uppermost diatomaceous units. Most specimens are well articulated or partially disarticulated but associated. Degree of preservation is exceptionally high and uniform among articulated and disarticulated specimens and on the lower and upper surfaces of the bones. Some specimens have baleen preserved in anatomical position. Bones show no evidence of bioerosion by macro- or micro-invertebrates, except for a very limited amount of microbial borings. Diatomaceous layers seem to lack bioturbation. However, bioturbation did occur in a few tuffaceous silty and sandy layers of the lower part of the formation. Shark teeth are found associated with many of the specimens; however, despite abundance of whale skeletons, shark tooth marks are extremely rare. Several lines of evidence indicate that sediments and whales were deposited in a shallow-to-deep shelf environment (an embayment), and not in a beach environment. The thick diatomaceous successions record conditions of strong ocean upwelling indicated by the abundant occurrence of the diatom species Thalassionema nitzschioides. The exceptional preservation of diatom frustules suggests that they reached the seafloor very rapidly and were not successively reworked. The hundreds of whale specimens found, their excellent preservation, and their high degree of articulation make the Pisco Formation fossil whales the best representative assemblage of fossil Mysticeti known so far. The abundance of whale skeletons and other vertebrates in the diatomaceous beds, their excellent preservation, including evidence that soft tissue (baleen) was still present at burial, and the degree of articulation, point to frequent mortalities followed by rapid sedimentation that prevented decay of the skeletons and colonization by invertebrates. Sedimentation rates appear much higher than rates inferred from some other modern and ancient settings where whale skeletons have been found.
Highlights•The BiVO4/BiOBr composite was prepared by a simple one-pot hydrothermal process.•The photocatalytic performance of the BiVO4/BiOBr composite was investigated.•Formation of heterojunction electric fields improved its photocatalytic performance.AbstractIn this work, the BiVO4/BiOBr heterojunction composite was successfully prepared by a simple one-pot hydrothermal process. The formation of BiVO4 and BiOBr and the photocatalytic performance of the prepared BiVO4/BiOBr composite were significantly influenced by the addition of cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB) and the concentration of HNO3 used during the process of preparing BiVO4. Rhodamine B (RhB) can be completely degraded in 15 min by the BiVO4/BiOBr composite under the illumination of visible light (λ＞420 nm). The degradation efficiency of the BiVO4/BiOBr composite is dramatically promoted compared with that of pure BiVO4. The significant promotion of the photocatalytic degradation performance can be attributed to the existence of the heterojunction electric field formed on the interface between BiVO4 and BiOBr, which significantly enhances the separation efficiency of the photogenerated electrons and holes.
AbstractThis paper reports the preparation of novel ZrO2 and TiO2 membrane layers with a tight pore structure for pervaporation applications, a high thermal and a high chemical stability. Optimized α-Al2O3/γ-Al2O3/ZrO2 and α-Al2O3/γ-Al2O3/TiO2 multilayer membranes, having a toplayer with a thickness 50–100 nm, were found defect-free in permporometry and displayed a high selectivity in standard pervaporation tests with alcohol/water mixtures. Separation tests at 70 °C demonstrated a separation factor exceeding 300 for a 95/5-wt% IPA/water mixture for both membranes. For the membrane with ZrO2 toplayer, the membrane quality was further demonstrated by applying ethanol/water as a feed mixture (separation factor > 150).
Highlights•A carbon–silica material derived from rice husk agricultural waste is prepared.•The improved thermal stability can be achieved by deduced the ionic content.•The thermal-mechanical strength and thermal conducting of epoxy/BRH are improved.AbstractThe present study focused on the preparation and characterization of a bio-based carbon-silica material derived from rice husk agricultural waste and its function in epoxy matrix for electronic packaging applications. X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis, N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms, and scanning electron microscopy were used to characterize the structure as well as morphology of the resultant carbon–silica material, namely black rice husk ash, called BRH. Thermogravimetric analysis results suggest that improved thermal stability can be achieved by reducing the ionic content of the BRH materials through the pre-acid-hydrothermal technique. The ionic content of [Cl−], [Na+], and [K+] of the BRH sample respectively were 4.3, 9.8, and 9.0 ppm after further post-hydrothermal process. In addition, the XRD diagram shows that the structure of the calcined BRH material, is in amorphous form, which is non-toxic to humans. For packaging application, an improvement of 147% in storage modulus and 49% in CTE by the addition of 46% filler was realized. In addition, compared with pure polymer, the thermal conductivity values of the epoxy/pre-BRH composites were improved by 142%. From these results, it was concluded that this BRH filler derived from waste rice husks can promote the thermal stability, thermal-mechanical strength, and thermal conduction of the Epoxy/BRH composites.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (120KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Two oxidation conditions were designed according to the environmental applications.•The two oxidized nanoparticles exhibited disparate colloidal behaviors.•Aggregation formation and aggregation kinetics were elucidated by colloidal theories.•Dissolved oxygen controlled aggregation by determining composition and magnetization.•Aggregation morphology decided aggregation kinetics though magnetic.AbstractOxidations of nanoscale zero-valent iron (nZVI) under aerobic (dissolved oxygen ≈ 8 mg L−1) and anaerobic (dissolved oxygen <3 mg L−1) conditions were simulated, and their influences on aggregation behaviors of nZVI were investigated. The two oxidation products were noted as HO-nZVI (nZVI oxidized in highly oxygenated water) and LO-nZVI (nZVI oxidized in lowly oxygenated water) respectively. The metallic iron of the oxidized nZVI was almost exhausted (Fe0 ≈ 8 ± 5%), thus magnetization mainly depended on magnetite content. Since sufficient dissolved oxygen led to the much less magnetite (∼15%) in HO-nZVI than that in LO-nZVI (>90%), HO-nZVI was far less magnetic (Ms = 88 kA m−1) than LO-nZVI (Ms = 365 kA m−1). Consequently, HO-nZVI formed small agglomerates (228 ± 10 nm), while LO-nZVI tended to form chain-like aggregations (>1 μm) which precipitated rapidly. Based on the EDLVO theory, we suggested that dissolved oxygen level determined aggregation morphologies by controlling the degree of oxidation and the magnitude of magnetization. Then the chain-like alignment of LO-nZVI would promote further aggregation, but the agglomerate morphology of HO-nZVI would eliminate magnetic forces and inhibit the aggregation while HO-nZVI remained magnetic. Our results indicated the fine colloidal stability of HO-nZVI, which might lead to the great mobility in the environment.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (152KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Deactivation of Pd-Fe bimetallic nanoparticles (BNPs) is observed in the presence of common groundwater solutes.•Stable carbon isotope fractionation analysis indicates at least four modes of deactivation for Pd-Fe BNPs in groundwater matrices.•Implementation of bimetallic ZVI technology needs to consider groundwater chemistry.AbstractPd-Fe bimetallic nanoparticles (BNPs) have substantially higher reactivity for reductive dehalogenation of chlorinated ethenes (e.g., trichloroethylene, TCE) compared to monometallic zero-valent iron nanoparticles, yet the rapid deactivation of BNPs in groundwater matrices limits their large-scale use in field applications. In spite of this shortcoming, the causes of BNP deactivation have not been clearly delineated. Stable carbon isotope fractionation measurements and product distribution analysis were used in this study to investigate the mechanisms of Pd-Fe deactivation in the presence of common groundwater solutes. Based on the apparent TCE degradation rates and at a constant solute concentration of 5 mM (except for humic acid, which was dosed at 20 mg/L), Pd-Fe BNPs exposed to SO42−, HPO42−, and humic acid solutions showed moderate declines in TCE dechlorination rates. Aging the bimetallic particles in Cl−, SO32−, HCO3−, and NO3− solutions, however, resulted in excessive or complete loss of TCE dechlorination reactivity. Analyses of the isotope fractionation associated with TCE hydrodechlorination (εTCEHDC<math><mrow is="true"><msub is="true"><mi is="true">ε</mi><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">T</mi><mi is="true">C</mi><mi is="true">E</mi><mi is="true">H</mi><mi is="true">D</mi><mi is="true">C</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></math>) as well as the yield of ethane over other dechlorination products suggest at least four distinctive causes of deactivation: (i) aging the BNPs in deionized water and humic acid induces surface passivation due to buildup of mineral or organic carbon deposits; (ii) SO32− and Cl− ions interact specifically with Pd sites and disable the catalyst functions; (iii) NO3− and HCO3− inhibits iron corrosion, thereby limiting the production of H2 as the precursor of reactive hydrogen species, and (iv) selective deactivation of surface sites involved in ethene hydrogenation was observed for BNPs aged in SO42− and HPO42− solutions. The findings suggest the Pd-on-Fe configuration of the bimetallic particles is susceptible to deactivation in a broader range of groundwater chemistry than previously expected.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (110KB)Download full-size image
Publisher SummaryThis chapter focuses on the types of adsorbents and their production. The majority of carbons exhibit the allotropic form of graphite, while diamond-like carbons, fullerenes and their derivatives, represent a shorter variety of carbon forms. Depending on the degree of crystallographic order in the third direction, carbons based on the allotropic form of graphite can be classified into graphitic carbons and non-graphitic carbons. Non-graphitic carbons can be divided into graphitizable and non-graphitizable carbons. Moving up from nano-scale to micro-scale, carbons exhibit very different structures. Powder and granular activated carbons are typical carbon adsorbents. Carbon adsorbents have a porous carbon structure, which contains small amounts of different heteroatoms, such as oxygen and hydrogen. The presence or absence of surface groups, formed by heteroatoms that may bond themselves to the carbon atoms at the edges of the basal planes gives rise to carbons with different chemical properties. The physical and chemical properties are important for the behavior of carbon adsorbents.
AbstractIn situ silicate dissolution rates within the saturated Navajo sandstone, at Black Mesa, Arizona were determined from elemental fluxes in the aquifer. The mass transfer between groundwater and mineral matrix along flow paths was calculated from inverse mass balance modeling. The reaction time is bound by 14C-based travel time. BET surface areas were measured with N2 gas adsorption. Dissolution rates for K-feldspar and plagioclase are 10−19 and 10−16 mol (feldspar) m−2 s−1, respectively, which are ∼105 times slower than laboratory experiment-derived rates under similar pH and temperature but at far from equilibrium conditions. The rates obtained in this study are consistent with the slower field rates found in numerous watershed and soil profile studies. However, these rates are from saturated aquifers, overcoming some concerns on estimated rates from unsaturated systems. The Navajo sandstone is a quartz-sandstone with a relatively simple and well-studied hydrogeology, groundwater geochemistry, and lithology, a large number of groundwater analyses and 14C groundwater ages, groundwater residence times up to ∼37 ky, groundwater pH from ∼8 to 10, and temperature from ∼15 to 35°C.
Highlights•Biomass composition with suitable pre-treatment is vital for successful biorefinery.•A technique that has high yield, low COD and low CO2 is ideal.•Integrated conversion technique with process integration is a suitable approach.•Combining microalgae with intermittent dark/photo fermentation in series is suggested.AbstractA constant shift of society's dependence from petroleum-based energy resources towards renewable biomass-based has been the key to tackle the greenhouse gas emissions. Effective use of biomass feedstock, particularly lignocellulosic, has gained worldwide attention lately. Lignocellulosic biomass as a potent bioresource, however, cannot be a sustainable alternative if the production cost is too high and/ or the availability is limited. Recycling the lignocellulosic biomass from various sources into value added products such as bio-oil, biochar or other biobased chemicals in a bio-refinery model is a sensible idea. Combination of integrated conversion techniques along with process integration is suggested as a sustainable approach. Introducing ‘series concept’ accompanying intermittent dark/photo fermentation with co-cultivation of microalgae is conceptualised. While the cost of downstream processing for a single type of feedstock would be high, combining different feedstocks and integrating them in a bio-refinery model would lessen the production cost and reduce CO2 emission.
AbstractMetal particles are attractive candidate fuels for various propulsion and energy-conversion applications, primarily due to their high energy densities. Micron-sized particles present several drawbacks, such as high ignition temperatures and particle agglomeration, resulting in low energy-release rates. Nanoparticles, on the other hand, are quite attractive due to their unique and favorable properties, which are attributed to their high specific surface area and excess energy of surface atoms. As a result, there is a growing interest in employing metal nanoparticles in propulsion and energy-conversion systems. The present work provides a comprehensive review of the advances made over the past few decades in the areas of synthesis, properties, and applications of metal-based energetic nanomaterials. An overview of existing methods to synthesize nanomaterials is first provided. Novel approaches to passivate metal nanoparticles are also discussed. The physicochemical properties of metal nanoparticles are then examined in detail. Low-temperature oxidation processes, and ignition and combustion of metal nanoparticles are investigated. The burning behaviors of different energetic material formulations with metal nanoparticles such as particle-laden dust clouds, solid propellants, liquid fuels and propellants, thermite materials, and inter-metallic systems are reviewed. Finally, deficiencies and uncertainties in our understanding of the field are identified, and directions for future work are suggested.
AbstractIn the present study, superhydrophobic copper wafer was prepared by a sol–gel deposition method. Different molar ratios of vinyltrimethoxysilane (VTES), ethanol (EtOH), water (H2O) and ammonia water (NH3·OH) were involved in this research. The morphologies, chemical compositions and hydrophobicity of the films were analyzed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), energy dispersive X-ray detector (EDX), Fourier transfer infrared spectrometer (FTIR) and water contact angle measurement (CA). It was shown by the surface morphological study that different structures, such as pyramid-shaped protrusions, nipple-shaped protrusions or ball-shaped silica particles, were distributed on the copper substrate. The films had a high water contact angle larger than 155.4°. The durability properties revealed that the films had a good superhydrophobicity deposited in 3.5 wt.% sodium chloride solution for up to 14 days.Graphical abstractMorphology of the superhydrophobic copper wafers surface.Download full-size imageHighlights► In this paper, a stable superhydrophobic film was prepared on copper wafer substrate by a simple sol–gel method via hydrolysis of vinyltrimethoxysilane (VTES). ► The surface morphological study showed that different structures, such as pyramid-shaped protrusions or nipple-shaped protrusions or ball-shaped silica particles distributed on the copper substrate. ► The films showed a good superhydrophobic property, which had a high CA of larger than 155.4°. ► The superhydrophobic film held a good anti-corrosive property, the CA was 151.6° for the copper wafer even with immersion periods up to 14 days in the 3.5 wt.% NaCl solution, pointing to promising future applications.
Highlights•The nZVW/H2O2 system effectively degraded RhB.•The stepwise oxidation of nZVW can generate low valence tungsten species.•The corrosion of nZVW can produce H2O2.•·OH was produce via Fenton-like system between tungsten species and H2O2.•RhB degradation pathways were proposed based on the variation of intermediates.AbstractRhodamine B (RhB) removal in a tungsten species-catalyzed Fenton-like system using nanoscale zero valent tungsten (nZVW) was investigated. The nZVW system can effective remove RhB in oxygenated water, and the nZVW/H2O2 system significantly enhances the RhB removal. Mechanism investigation shows that hydroxyl radical (·OH) is the primary reactive oxidant for removing RhB in both systems. The stepwise oxidation of nZVW can release reactive tungsten species and produce H2O2 by electron transfer from W0 or low valent tungsten species to O2, and ·OH was then formed via a Fenton-like reaction between low valent tungsten species and H2O2. The addition of H2O2 in the nZVW/H2O2 system can increase the RhB removal ratio by accelerating nZVW corrosion and enhancing the Fenton-like reaction. Moreover, higher pH inhibits the RhB removal due to the consumption of reactive tungsten species by OH−, and both higher nZVW and H2O2 dosages can enhance the RhB removal. RhB degradation pathways in the nZVW/H2O2 system are proposed involving N-de-ethylation, chromophore cleavage, ring open, and mineralization. In addition, the present study puts forward a new water treatment technique and contributes to understand the role of tungsten species in advanced oxidation processes.
AbstractAs on today, the conversion of carbon dioxide (CO2) into value added chemicals including methanol using exclusively solar energy (i.e., artificial photosynthesis) has been considered as one of the top most research priorities all over the world as this process can indeed deal with (i) the mitigation of CO2 associated global warming problem, (ii) creation of highly sustainable and renewable energy resources, and (iii) development of one of the best processes to store the energy in a most convenient form of liquid fuels with sufficiently high energy density in comparison to all the existing methods of energy storage. As the CO2 sequestration process is expensive, there has been a quest for finding other alternative options. The CO2 can be converted into several value added chemicals including methanol following stoichiometric reactions, thermochemical, electrochemical, photoelectrochemical, photocatalytic, etc., routes. Methanol synthesized from CO2 can be employed directly in place of fossil fuels without disturbing the present existing energy distribution infrastructure. Further, if H2 required for CO2 reduction is produced from water using exclusively solar energy, and methanol is produced with minimum overpotentials with the help of suitable catalytic systems, this process can be employed to address the above-mentioned three major problems. The process for converting CO2 into methanol can be developed by careful analysis and understanding of the information available on this process reported so far in the literature. Since, none of the existing review articles deals exclusively with this important process of converting CO2 into methanol, in this review article, all the information including fundamental challenges and opportunities that are associated with the conversion of CO2 into methanol following various routes has been summarized, discussed and meticulously presented by citing all the up to date relevant references.
AbstractBiomass has wide applications as a source of clean energy and as a raw material for different chemical stocks. Dissolution of willow as a model system for biomass conversion has been investigated in the 200–350 °C temperature range. The dissolution process was studied using a batch-type (diamond-anvil cell) and a continuous flow process reactor. A 95% dissolution of willow was achieved. The lignin and hemicellulose in willow were fragmented and dissolved at a temperature as low as 200 °C and a pressure of 10 MPa. Cellulose dissolved in the 280–320 °C temperature range. A dissolution mechanism is proposed, which involves a rapid fragmentation and hydrolysis of lignin, hemicellulose and cellulose to form oligomers and other water–soluble products, such as glucose. The re-condensation behavior of the dissolved oligomers is the main challenge for efficient dissolution. A continuous flow process is more effective and simpler in this regard than is a batch process. The results of this work show that hot, compressed water affords a viable alternative to corrosive chemicals and toxic solvents, thereby facilitating the utilization of biomass as a source of renewable fuel and chemical feedstocks.
AbstractWith the emergence of nanotechnology, researchers become more interested in studying the unique properties of nanoscale materials. Electrospinning, an electrostatic fiber fabrication technique has evinced more interest and attention in recent years due to its versatility and potential for applications in diverse fields. The notable applications include in tissue engineering, biosensors, filtration, wound dressings, drug delivery, and enzyme immobilization. The nanoscale fibers are generated by the application of strong electric field on polymer solution or melt. The non-wovens nanofibrous mats produced by this technique mimics extracellular matrix components much closely as compared to the conventional techniques. The sub-micron range spun fibers produced by this process, offer various advantages like high surface area to volume ratio, tunable porosity and the ability to manipulate nanofiber composition in order to get desired properties and function. Over the years, more than 200 polymers have been electropun for various applications and the number is still increasing gradually with time. With these in perspectives, we aim to present in this review, an overview of the electrospinning technique with its promising advantages and potential applications. We have discussed the electrospinning theory, spinnable polymers, parameters (solution and processing), which significantly affect the fiber morphology, solvent properties and melt electrospinning (alternative to solution electrospinning). Finally, we have focused on varied applications of electrospun fibers in different fields and concluded with the future prospects of this efficient technology.
Publisher SummaryThis chapter discusses a specialized application of micro-irrigation systems— namely, use of biological effluent for crop production. The term “biological effluent” refers to wastewater that contains impurities derived from biological sources. Typical sources include human and animal metabolic waste and domestic and industrial food processing waste. Effluents from these sources contain organic and inorganic matter, in contrast to fresh water, which contains primarily inorganic matter of riparian origin. The application of the effluent back onto the grain-producing lands has conserved fresh water resources and reduced some fertilizer applications. Commonly, the livestock wastewater is applied with sprinkler or surface irrigation systems. Subsurface drip irrigation is a new technology for livestock wastewater application. This chapter considers biological effluent to be a resource. Consequently, the approach is to emphasize the efficient use of the resource rather than disposal of a waste product. Traditionally, most effluents have been applied by sprinkler or surface irrigation systems. However, continued advances in micro-irrigation system design, management, monitoring, and especially in water treatment have expanded the use of biological effluent through micro-irrigation systems. Even though effluents contain many types of materials that can readily clog emitters, the advantages strongly favor the use of such effluents for agricultural irrigation.
Highlights•Photocatalytic efficiency of ZnO is improved by iron doping.•New materials have been synthesized using different synthetic strategies.•The best performances were obtained using the hydrothermal process.•Phenol and Ketoprofen abatement are favoured with ZnO doped with iron at 0.5%.•Ketoprofen and its byproducts were successful abated also in a real wastewater.AbstractThis study aims to investigate how the photocatalytic efficiency of zinc oxide can be improved by introducing doping species into its crystal lattice. New materials based on zinc oxide doped with iron, have been synthesized using different methods, characterized and tested toward the abatement of selected organic molecules. The different synthetic strategies followed comprised sol-gel, precipitation and hydrothermal processes, in order to identify which one is capable of guaranteeing the best photocatalytic performances.The photoactivity of the new semiconductors was firstly tested using phenol as a model molecule subjected to irradiation under UV-A light. Phenol abatement is particularly favoured when using ZnO prepared via hydrothermal method and doped with iron at 0.5%. These materials were then tested toward the elimination of ketoprofen, an emerging pollutant substance, from water and real wastewater. Ketoprofen and its transformation products are completely abated within 30 min in pure water or in 1 h in wastewater.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (147KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Current methods for EAM enrichment have uncovered only a small part of EAM diversity.•Potentiostat-controlled electrochemical cells provide higher repeatability than MFC-based enrichment.•Microbial-rich environments like sediments and soil are preferable to wastewater as inocula for EAM enrichment.AbstractElectrochemically-active microorganisms (EAM) are relevant to metal biogeochemistry and have applications in microbial fuel cells (MFCs), bioremediation, and bioelectrocatalysis. Most research conducted to date focuses on EAM hailing from two distinct genera, namely Shewanella and Geobacter, with a relatively limited number of EAM discovered in recent years. This review article summarises current approaches to novel EAM enrichment, in terms of inoculum choice, growth medium, reactor configuration, electrochemical characterisation and community profiling through metagenomics and metatranscriptomics. A novel roadmap for EAM enrichment and subsequent characterisation using environmental samples as a starting material is provided in order to increase throughput and hence the likelihood of discovering novel EAM.
Highlights•XDC-2 secreted enzymes and degraded un-pretreated lignocelluloses effectively.•Effectively degraded un-pretreated lignocelluloses to organic acids.•Composition of XDC-2 remained stable during the degradation process.AbstractThe present study investigated the degradation of un-pretreated wheat straw, corn stalk, and rice straw by a lignocellulose-degrading microbial consortium XDC-2. Following six days of cultivation, exocellular xylanase activities were 414.9, 491.9, and 335 U/mL, respectively. After 12 days, the rice straw had lost 39.71% of its weight, hemicellulose and cellulose losses of 78.27% and 14.08%, respectively. The total amount of volatile products reached a maximum on day six for rice straw degradation. The four major types of volatile products were acetic acid, propionic acid, butanoic acid, and glycerin, all of which would be suitable substrates for conversion to methanol by anaerobic digestion. According to PCR-DGGE analysis, XDC-2 remained stable during the degradation process of untreated lignocellulosic biomass. These results demonstrate the potential for further development and application of XDC-2; it is capable of degrading un-pretreated lignocellulosic materials, and has a low cost of operation.
AbstractAn environmentally benign biodegradable chelant, polyepoxysuccinic acid (PESA), was used to separate heavy metals from sewage sludge from the Shanghai Taopu Wastewater Treatment Plant, China, based on chemical extraction technology. The extraction of chromium (Cr) from sewage sludge with an aqueous solution of PESA was studied under various conditions. It was found that the extraction of Cr using PESA was more efficient than that using ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and S,S-ethylenediaminedisuccinic acid (EDDS) under similar conditions. PESA was capable of extracting Cr from the sewage sludge, and the extraction efficiency was obviously dependent on both the pH and the concentration of the chelating reagent. The extraction efficiency decreased gradually with increasing pH, and the dependence on pH decreased as the concentration of PESA increased. The extraction efficiency reached 58% under conditions of pH = 4 and a ratio of PESA to total heavy metals of 10:1. The extraction efficiency was maintained above 40% within the pH range from 1 to 7 at the high ratio of PESA to total heavy metals of 10:1. Comparing the contents of heavy metals in the sewage sludge before and after the extraction, it was found that the extracted Cr came mainly from the reducible and oxidizable fractions.
Highlights•Influence of bacterial self-healing agent on early age performance was studied from rheology, hydration and microstructure.•Suitable microbial self-healing agent dosage is beneficial to improving rheological properties, strength and matrix compaction.•Considering the nucleation of bacteria in the mortar, suitable carriers need to be developed.AbstractBacteria have been applied in cement-based materials as a self-healing agent while research about the effect of bacteria on undamaged concrete itself is still limited. This paper investigated influence of bacterial self-healing agent on rheology, hydration process, pore structure, strength development and mineralization product changes. By analyzing zeta potential, electrical resistivity, BET and μ-CT, TG-DSC and SEM results, it could be found that direct incorporation of bacterial self-healing agents has increased consistency, hydration rate, and quantity of mineralization products, which could be conducive to enhance strength and dense pore structure.
Highlights•Small and uniform particles of BaSO4 synthesized with proposed auxiliary solution.•Glycerol acted as molecular spacer and prevent particle growth of BaSO4 particles.•Synthesized BaSO4 provided more nucleation centers for PbSO4 per volume unit of NAM.•Sulfating layer reduced on negative electrode prepared with synthesized BaSO4.•Synthesized BaSO4 particles improved overall performance of lead-acid batteries.AbstractPresent work proposes a unique and simple method for synthesizing small and uniform Barium sulfate particles within a novel auxiliary solution based on the glycerol. Glycerol acts as a molecular spacer and prevents growth and agglomeration of the synthesizing particles. Barium sulfate is the isomorph of PbSO4 and provides the centers for nucleation of PbSO4 particles during the discharge process. Smaller particles of BaSO4 leads to more and smaller PbSO4 particles per volume of Negative Active Material (NAM). Therefore, electrochemical reactions including oxidation (discharge) and reduction (charge) are performed utterly in deeper parts of the NAM. The battery containing synthesized BaSO4 exhibits much better capacity, cranking performance, charge acceptance and cycle-life in relation to the reference battery. After cycling test, NAM of the battery is investigated with Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and X-ray Diffraction (XRD) to study the particle size and morphology of it. More, uniform and smaller PbSO4 particles are produced at discharge state. Through the complete reduction process, PbSO4 particles completely turn back to the spongy Pb on the negative electrode which reduces the “sulfation” of the electrodes. Consequently, synthesized Barium sulfate particles with the proposed method, improve the overall performance of the lead-acid battery.
Highlights•Highest methane productions were obtained from thermally pretreated whole slurries.•Furfural and 5-HMF released in acid pretreatment inhibited methane production.•High phenolic compounds release required a microorganism’s acclimation period.•Lignin degradation provided the highest hydrolysis rates when inhibition was defeated.•A novel kinetic model is proposed combining hydrolysis and microorganisms inhibition.AbstractThe effect of thermal, acid, alkaline and alkaline-peroxide pretreatments on the methane produced by the anaerobic digestion of wheat straw (WS) and sugarcane bagasse (SCB) was studied, using whole slurry and solid fraction. All the pretreatments released formic and acetic acids and phenolic compounds, while 5-hydroxymetilfurfural (HMF) and furfural were generated only by acid pretreatment. A remarkable inhibition was found in most of the whole slurry experiments, except in thermal pretreatment which improved methane production compared to the raw materials (29% for WS and 11% for SCB). The alkaline pretreatment increased biodegradability (around 30%) and methane production rate of the solid fraction of both pretreated substrates. Methane production results were fitted using first order or modified Gompertz equations, or a novel model combining both equations. The model parameters provided information about substrate availability, controlling step and inhibitory effect of compounds generated by each pretreatment.
AbstractFocus of the present study is on the fate of sulphur during coal combustion and modelling of the corresponding SOx formation mechanisms. The sulphur chemistry during coal combustion in general is briefly described and potential effects of the oxy-fuel conditions are explained. Details about the developed sulphur chemistry model which covers both heterogeneous and homogeneous reaction pathways are given. The model describes the sulphur transformation in a sequence of stages: the release of coal-bound sulphur, gas phase reactions of sulphuric species, and self-retention of sulphur oxides by coal ash.The model is evaluated against experimental data from IFK's semi-industrial scale furnace (500 kWth) firing lignite at conventional and oxy-fuel combustion conditions. Four reference cases are considered, i.e. air and oxy-fuel mode in both non-staged and staged operation. Based on the results from the basic combustion simulation with AIOLOS, the sulphur chemistry model has been applied in a subsequent post-processing step. The sulphur related results show that the general trends regarding the species concentrations may be predicted correctly. The specific characteristics and the effect of oxy-fuel conditions and oxidant staging are captured correspondingly within the simulation results. Yet, certain deficiencies concerning the quantitative prediction could be identified which necessitate further investigations.
Highlights•16S rDNA analysis showed populations on immersed steel differed from those in seawater.•DNA from closely attached biofilm was 1500 times that from readily removed layers.•Diatoma and Rhodobacteriaceae were more abundant in inner biofilm.•Pipeline used in taxonomic analysis affected determined population.•Pipeline using Silva111 database detected Deferribacteres and SRB OTUs in biofilms.Abstract16S rRNA gene profiling using a pipeline involving the Greengenes database revealed that bacterial populations in innermost (proximal to the steel surface) and outer regions of biofilms on carbon steel exposed 3 m below the surface at an offshore site in the Gulf of Guinea differed from one another and from seawater. There was a preponderance of gammaproteobacterial sequences, representing organisms known for hydrocarbon degradation. Total DNA from the innermost layer was 1500 times that recovered from the outermost. Stramenopiles (diatom) sequences were prevalent in the former. Rhodobacteriaceae, key biofilm formers, comprised 14.9% and 4.22% OTUs of inner and outer layers, respectively. Photosynthetic anaerobic sulfur oxidizer sequences were also prominent in the biofilms. Analysis of data using a different pipeline with Silva111 allowed detection of 0.3–0.4% SRB in the biofilms. The high abundance of aerobic micro-algal sequences in inner biofilm suggests they are initial colonizers of carbon steel surfaces in a marine environment. This is the first time that the microbial population of the strongly attached inner layer of the biofilm on steel has been differentiated from the outer, readily removed layer. The accepted scraping removal method is obviously inadequate and the resulting microbial analysis does not offer complete information on the biofilm community structure.
AbstractIn this study, four mononuclear M(II)-pyridine-2,5-dicarboxylate (M = Co(II), Ni(II), Cu(II) and Zn(II) complexes with pyridine-2,5-dicarboxylic acid or isocinchomeronic acid, 1,10-phenanthroline (phen), [Co(Hpydc)2(phen)]·H2O (1), [Ni(pydc)(phen)2]·6.5H2O (2) [Cu(pydc)(phen)(H2O)2] (3) and [Zn(pydc)(phen)(H2O)2]·H2O (4) have been synthesized. Elemental, thermal and mass analyses, molar conductance, magnetic susceptibilities, IR and UV/vis spectroscopic studies have been performed to characterize the complexes. Subsequently, these ligands and complexes were tested for antimicrobial activity by disc diffusion method on Gram positive, negative bacteria and yeast. In addition, cytotoxic activity tests were performed on rat glioma (C6) cells by MTT viability assay for 24 and 48 h. Antimicrobial activity results demonstrated that when compared to the standard antibiotics, phen displayed the most effective antimicrobial effect. The effect of synthesized complexes was close to phen or less. Cytotoxic activity results showed that IC50 value of phen was determined as 31 μM for 48 h. (1) and (2) compared to the alone ligand had less toxic activity. IC50 values of (3) for 24 and 48 h treatments were 2.5 and 0.6 μM, respectively. IC50 value of (4) for 48 h was 15 μM. In conclusion, phen, (3) and (4) may be useful as antibacterial and antiproliferative agents in the future.
AbstractManganese oxide incorporated ferric oxide nanocomposite (MIFN), a novel adsorbent has been synthesized, characterized and explored for the removal of Cr(VI) from contaminated water. Surface elemental composition of semi-crystalline adsorbent was analyzed by SEM-EDX spectroscopy and was found to contain Fe (42.5%), Mn (8.1%) and O (49.4%), confirming Fe/Mn mole ratio of 5.0. BET surface area, particle diameter, pore size and total pore volume of the adsorbent were estimated as 186.28 m2g−1, 5–7 nm, 81.2 A0 and 0.31 cm3 g−1 respectively. The adsorption of Cr(VI) was highly pH sensitive, and maximum adsorption was achieved within pH 2.0–3.0. Adsorption kinetics were described well by pseudo 2nd order model and were followed by both film diffusion as well as intra-particle pore diffusion mechanism. Langmuir isotherm was recognized to be the best fit model and maximum monolayer adsorption capacity was estimated as 47.84 mg g−1 for Cr(VI) at pH 3.0 at 303 K. Thermodynamic analysis revealed that the adsorption was highly favorable, spontaneous and endothermic in nature. Adsorption of Cr(VI) was strongly inhibited by phosphate and sulphate, whereas fluoride, carbonate, bicarbonate and silicate have no significant interference. Adsorption efficiency of the spent adsorbent (MIFN) could be rejuvenated around 78–80% by 1.0 M NaOH and subsequently be reused. The present study revealed that MIFN could be an efficient adsorbent for scavenging Cr(VI) from contaminated water because of its high adsorption capacity and reusability.
AbstractA phytic acid conversion film with especial functional groups was proposed as the pretreatment layer between Ni–P coating and AZ91D magnesium alloy substrate, to replace the traditional pretreatment. In the process, the silane coupling agent was adopted as connector between conversion film and palladium ion with catalysis. The microstructure of the phytic acid conversion coatings was observed using scanning electronic microscopy, while the composition and functional groups were analyzed by energy dispersive spectrometer and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The bonding between Si–OH of the silane coupling agent and hydroxyl of phytic acid was validated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and the existence of palladium ion was also verified. The subsequent Ni–P deposited on the layer was also characterized by its structure, morphology, and corrosion resistance. The results show that the Ni–P coatings with the phytic acid pretreatment on AZ91D magnesium alloy have good corrosion resistance.
Highlights•The occurrence of 69 organic pollutants was assessed at one CSO outfall during seven rain events.•CSO discharges represent an important source of a wide range of organic micropollutants.•The contribution of stormwater to CSO emitted loads was higher than 90% for herbicides and PAHs.•Remobilisation of in-sewer deposits contributed from 10% to 65% to carbamazepine emissions in CSO events.•Technical measures at both WWTP and CSOs are needed to reduce discharged pollutant loads effectively.AbstractTo characterise emissions from combined sewer overflows (CSOs) regarding organic micropollutants, a monitoring study was undertaken in an urban catchment in southwest Stuttgart, Germany. The occurrence of 69 organic micropollutants was assessed at one CSO outfall during seven rain events as well as in the sewage network at the influent of the wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and in the receiving water. Several pollutant groups like pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs), urban biocides and pesticides, industrial chemicals, organophosphorus flame retardants, plasticisers and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were chosen for analysis. Out of the 69 monitored substances, 60 were detected in CSO discharges. The results of this study show that CSOs represent an important pathway for a wide range of organic micropollutants from wastewater systems to urban receiving waters. For most compounds detected in CSO samples, event mean concentrations varied between the different events in about one order of magnitude range. When comparing CSO concentrations with median wastewater concentrations during dry weather, two main patterns could be observed depending on the source of the pollutant: (i) wastewater is diluted by stormwater; (ii) stormwater is the most important source of a pollutant. Both wastewater and stormwater only play an important role in pollutant concentration for a few compounds. The proportion of stormwater calculated with the conductivity is a suitable indicator for the evaluation of emitted loads of dissolved wastewater pollutants, but not for all compounds. In fact, this study demonstrates that remobilisation of in-sewer deposits contributed from 10% to 65% to emissions of carbamazepine in CSO events. The contribution of stormwater to CSO emitted loads was higher than 90% for all herbicides as well as for PAHs. Regarding the priority substance di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP), this contribution varied between 39% and 85%. The PAH concentrations found along the river indicate environmental risk, especially during rainfall events.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (686KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Fe/Ni NPs exhibited a stronger toxicity than the bare Fe0 NPs toward E. coli.•Starch coating alleviated the toxicity of Fe/Ni NPs, depending on starch loading.•ROS-induced oxidative stress was the primary mechanism for the toxicity of NPs.•Both Fe/Ni and starch-coated Fe/Ni NPs would lose their toxic potential over time.AbstractThis study examined the toxicities of Fe/Ni and starch-stabilized Fe/Ni (S-Fe/Ni) nanoparticles (NPs) toward Escherichia coli. The inactivation of E. coli by Fe/Ni NPs was concentration- and time-dependent. Fe/Ni NPs exhibited a stronger toxicity than the bare Fe0 NPs (i.e., Ni = 0 wt%), revealing that the loading of Ni increased the toxicity of Fe0 NPs. However, there was no positive correlation between Ni content and the toxicity of Fe/Ni NPs when Ni content increased from 1 wt% to 5 wt%. The starch coating could alleviate the toxicity of Fe/Ni NPs, depending on starch concentration. Transmission Electron Microscopy analysis demonstrates that membrane disruption and cellular internalization of NPs occurred for E. coli after exposure to the Fe/Ni NPs. The NPs might have reacted with the carboxyl, ester and amine groups on the cell surface, as indicated by the Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy analysis. However, the S-Fe/Ni NPs did not cause obvious membrane disruption of the cells due to the effect of starch coating, which inhibited the close contact of NPs with cells by providing electrostatic repulsion and steric hindrance. Besides, the addition of N-Acetyl-L-cysteine, as a potent scavenger for reactive oxygen species (ROS), remarkably reduced the toxicities of both Fe/Ni and S-Fe/Ni NPs, which indicated that the ROS-induced oxidative stress should be the primary mechanism for the inactivation of E. coli. The aging experiments evidenced that both Fe/Ni and S-Fe/Ni NPs would lose their toxic potential over time, posing less threat to the environment in the long term.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (247KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•A new coating system was proposed using silanized electrodeposited silica film as the pretreatment layer.•This composite film has both the high roughness/porosity and the chemical functionalization.•The new coating system provides largely improved adhesion.•The new coating system constructed upon composite film exhibits an excellent corrosion performance for mild steels.AbstractThis work presents a new type of coating system based on the use of electrodeposited SiO2 (E-SiO2) film post-treated with (3-glycidoxypropyl)-trimethoxysilane (GPTMS) as the pretreatment layer. The silane-modified E-SiO2 films take advantage of not only the highly rough and porous features provided by E-SiO2 skeleton, but also the chemical functionalization offered by organosilane molecule. As a result, the composite pretreatment layer provides improved adhesion to the topcoat. In addition, the experimental results of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, salt spray test, iron-dissolution measurement and the scanning vibrating electrode technique suggest that painting system constructed on GPTMS-treated E-SiO2 films exhibits excellent corrosion performance.
AbstractThe novelty of the present research consists in the possibility of obtaining cerium-doped hydroxyapatite/collagen coatings on the titanium support, to improve the performance of the bone implants. These coatings were deposited on the titanium surface by biomimetic method using a modified supersaturated calcification solution (SCS) additionally containing a cerium source and collagen. Prior to the deposition of the apatite layer, an alkali ÷ thermal oxidation pretreatment has been applied to ensure an increase in the bioactivity of the titanium surface. The coatings were examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) coupled with energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Fourier transformed infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. The EDX and XRD investigations of the coatings indicated that cerium was incorporated in the hydroxyapatite lattice. The collagen presence in the coatings was confirmed by FTIR analysis. The cerium-doped hydroxyapatite/collagen coatings showed good antibacterial efficacy against Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus bacteria, being more effective against Escherichia coli. These coatings have a significant potential to be used in the dental and orthopedic implants, as the osseointegration depends on much more factors than simple formation of hydroxyapatite.
AbstractThis paper summarizes a few of the self-assembling systems investigated in the authors’ laboratory over the years. These include systems that mimic an enzyme, solubilize drugs, release encapsulated guests, assemble via hydrophobic surfaces, exhibit hysteresis in films, link cancer cells to vesicles, and destroy toxic compounds. Although the amphiphilic molecules are all rather different, one overriding theme predominates: just as the properties of molecules are not simple extrapolations from atoms, properties of self-assemblies are not simple extrapolations from molecules. Groups of molecules, properly assembled, can accomplish much more than an equal number of molecules functioning separately.Graphical abstractThe graphic shows a vesicle self-assembly adhering to a cell via a steroid/mannose-phosphonate conjugate.Download high-res image (55KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe deep dorsal penile vein was obtained from seven patients undergoing surgery for erectile dysfunction. The veins were studied histologically and immunohistochemically for serotonin, dopamine ^-hydroxylase, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, neuropeptide Y, substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, somatostatin, and [Leu]- and [Met]enkephalin. Histologically, the deep dorsal vein was found to be a large muscular vein with a thin endothelial lining. The tunica media was composed of an inner longitudinally and an outer circularly arranged smooth muscle layer. Numerous vasa vasorum (up to 30 in a single transverse section) were found in the tunica adventitia. The greatest density of nerves supplying the deep dorsal vein and vasa vasorum were neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive nerves followed (in a decreasing order) by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- and dopamine β-hydroxylase-immunoreactive nerves. Substance P-, calcitonin gene-related peptideand somatostatin-immunoreactive nerves, but not serotonin-, [Leu]- and [Met]enkephalin-immu-noreactive nerves, were occasionally found around the deep dorsal vein. All these nerve fibers were confined to the adventitial-medial border except neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive nerves which in addition penetrated the tunica media to the subendothelial layer of the deep dorsal vein. In contrast, neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive nerves supplying the vasa vasorum were always confined to the adventitial-medial border. The possible function of the medial innervation of the deep dorsal vein by neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive nerves is discussed.
Highlights•MEA degradation during pilot-scale PCC of CO2 is characterised.•Total carbon and NMR estimated more MEA degradation than HSS.•MEA degradation can be monitored using UV–vis, ATR-IR or total carbon analysers.AbstractAmine degradation is an important and current focus in the development of chemical absorption technology based on the use of aqueous amines for post-combustion capture (PCC) of CO2. The oxidative degradation and carbamate polymerisation of monoethanolamine (the current industry standard amine for PCC) has been studied extensively at the laboratory scale. However, methods for monitoring long-term amine degradation during pilot, demonstration and commercial scale PCC are needed to enable researchers and operators to optimise amine management (e.g. minimising degradation and optimising reclamation strategies), improve PCC plant operation and avoid operational instabilities. The current industry standard method, based on the measurement of heat-stable salts (HSS) is not suitable for continuous monitoring of amine degradation. This study discusses the organic structural changes of severely degraded 30% (w/w) aqueous monoethanolamine samples obtained from a PCC pilot plant operating at a brown coal-fired power station in Australia. It demonstrates that absorbance measurement at 313 nm by UV–vis, change in infra-red absorbance and the organic carbon content of degradation products correlate strongly with HSS concentrations. These parameters are easily measured using well established technology and are suitable for monitoring the degradation of aqueous monoethanolamine during PCC.
AbstractThe inhibition of corrosion of iron by thiourea (TU) and its N-substituted derivatives has been investigated using semiempirical molecular orbital theory. The high efficiency of TU with low concentration is attributed to strong adsorption of molecular species through the active center C–S bond. The protonation process appeared to be the effective parameter at high concentration with lowering of the inhibition efficiency of the TU. Alkyl N-substituted TU with the least protonation and with the maximum adsorption is a better inhibitor than TU and aryl N-substituted TU. The thiocarbohydrazide molecule shows the least efficiency of our investigated inhibitors with the highest protonation due to high charge density on the sulphur atom, lengthening and weakening of the C–S bond, and high reactivity with small energy separation between the frontier molecular orbitals.
Highlights•One pot synthesis of CdS/CeO2 nanostructures by combustion synthesis.•Visible light photocatalytic activity for H2 production from water.•Simultaneous removal of phenol and Cr(VI) from aqueous streams.AbstractHarvesting visible light of the solar spectrum by coupled semiconductor based systems is advantageous for photocatalytic as well as photovoltaic applications. One pot synthesis of several CdS/CeO2 nanomaterials has been carried out without using expensive surfactants, capping agents and molecular linkers. Various techniques such as X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), diffuse reflectance UV–vis spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy and BET surface area were used to characterize the samples. XRD and Raman spectroscopic data provided the information about the presence of both CdS and CeO2 phases. TEM proves the proper dispersion and well connectivity between the CdS and CeO2 which may be due to the single step synthesis of the composites. UV–vis spectroscopy reveals the absorption in both UV and visible regions due to the presence of both CeO2 and CdS. The visible light activity of the composites have been ascribed by the H2 production from water by using sacrificial reagents, simultaneous removal of phenol and Cr(VI) from aqueous streams. Among the synthesized composites CdS/CeO2 (1:1) has shown superior activity which can be attributed to the optimum sensitization of CeO2 which induces enhanced electron transfer from CdS to CeO2 that decreases the exciton recombination.
AbstractThe adsorption capability of α-diimines N-ethylamine-1,2-dimethyl-α-diimine, N-ethylhydroxy-1,2-dimethyl-α-diimine and N-ethylthiol-1,2-dimethyl-α-diimine over iron-clusters was studied by DFT. The results show that since these compounds possess suitable structural and electronic parameters for metal adhesion, α-diimines strongly adsorb over the metal clusters. Moreover, the calculated binding energy supports the existence of a bond between α-diimine and the iron metal, consisting of the transfer of high-charge density which in the delocalization region (N1C2–C3N4) is formed by p (nitrogen) and π (CN) to the metal (L(σ) → Fe). Furthermore, the binding nature of the compounds with the metal is then confirmed in molecular orbital studies by detecting the overlap of HOMO (diimines) with LUMO (iron).Graphical abstractThe α-diimines can be used as corrosion inhibitor as these compounds efficiently adsorb over iron-clusters. This is proved by molecular orbital studies.Download high-res image (99KB)Download full-size image
AbstractFlexible energy storage devices are essential for emerging flexible electronics. The existing state-of-the-art Li-ion batteries are slowly reaching their limitation in terms of cost and energy density. Hence, flexible Na-ion batteries (SIBs) with abundance Na resources and Li–S batteries with high energy density become the alternative for the Li-ion batteries in future. This review summarizes the recent advances in the development of flexible electrode materials for SIBs with metallic matrix and carbonaceous matrix such as carbon nano-tubes, carbon nano-fiber, graphene, carbon cloth, carbon fiber cloth, and cotton textiles. Then, the potential prototype flexible full SIBs are discussed. Further, the recent progress in the development of flexible electrode materials for Li–S batteries based on carbon nano-fiber, carbon nano-tubes, graphene, and cotton textiles is reviewed. Moreover, the design strategies of suitable interlayer, separator, electrolyte, and electrodes to prevent the dissolution and shuttle effect of polysulfides in flexible Li–S batteries are provided. Finally some prospective investigation trends towards future research of flexible SIBs and Li–S batteries are also proposed and discussed. The scientific and engineering knowledge gained on flexible SIBs and Li–S batteries provides conceivable development for practical application in near future.Graphical abstractThe recent advances in the development of flexible electrode materials with metallic matrix and carbonaceous matrix for flexible Na-ion batteries (with abundance Na resources) and Li–S batteries (with high energy density) have been reviewed.Download high-res image (106KB)Download full-size image
AbstractBacterial regrowth was investigated over a 15-month period in distribution systems (DSs) of Durham and Raleigh in North Carolina. These two water utilities were chosen because they are adjacent to one another, have similar service area characteristics, and treat surface waters of similar characteristics with conventional processes (coagulation–sedimentation and dual-media filtration). The finished waters have similar chemical quality and regrowth potential as measured by assimilable organic carbon (AOC). The major difference in treatment is the choice of final disinfectants (chlorine in Durham and chloramine in Raleigh). Ten sampling sites (monthly sampling) were chosen in each system to give wide geographic coverage and correspondingly, a wide range of water residence times. Significant losses were observed in both chlorine and chloramine residual in the DSs that produced bacterial regrowth as measured by heterotrophic plate count (HPC). The frequency distributions for log HPC (133 observations from Durham and 135 observations from Raleigh) were statistically the same in the chlorinated and chloraminated DSs. A correlation analysis indicated that disinfectant residual is the most important factor determining HPC level. However, the resulting R2 value for a non-linear regression model that also included AOC, temperature, and pH as independent variables was less than 0.7. Bacterial regrowth as measured by HPC, is dependent upon a complex interaction of chemical, physical, and operational parameters that may not be captured by such a simple statistical relationship.
AbstractThe inhibition of mild steel corrosion in a 2.5 M H2SO4 solution by 4,4-dimethyl-3-thiosemicarbazide (DTS) was studied at 30 °C using potentiodynamic polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). Quantum chemical parameters were calculated for DTS using PM3-SCF method. The molecular dynamic method was performed to simulate the adsorption of the DTS molecules on Fe surface. Results showed that DTS performed excellent as inhibitor for mild steel corrosion in a 2.5 M H2SO4 solution and indicated that the inhibition efficiencies increase with the concentration of inhibitor. Theoretical results indicated that DTS could adsorb on the mild steel surface firmly through heteroatoms.Highlights► This work deals with a study of chemical additives for corrosion inhibition of mild steel in acidic conditions. ► The effects of the additive 4,4-dimethyl-3-thiosemicarbazide (DTS) on mild steel were studied by means of electrochemical techniques. ► Quantum chemical calculations and molecular dynamic model were performed to characterize the inhibition mechanism. ► The calculations provided information that helps in the analysis/interpretation of the experimental work.
Highlights•Halloysite nanotubes (HNTs) was modified with 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane.•Modified and unmodified HNTs were used as reservoir for Zn2+ cations.•Higher concentration of zinc cations were released from modified HNTs.•Modified HNTs doped with Zn2+ improved protective function of epoxy ester coating.AbstractThis paper deals with the loading of halloysite nanotubes (HNTs) with Zn2+ cations. The aluminol groups of HNTs were grafted by 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES) to enhance Zn2+ loading. FTIR proved modification of HNTs. Electrochemical evaluations of bare steel in saline solution showed higher corrosion inhibition provided by an extract of modified HNTs connecting to a higher concentration of zinc cations released from modified HNTs. The HNTs were incorporated into an epoxy ester coating, and electrochemical behavior of intact and scratched coatings was evaluated. Active corrosion protection at the defect areas of the coatings was proved by EDS analysis.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (195KB)Download full-size image
AbstractFood borne microorganisms display a broad spectrum of resistance responses to naturally occurring and intentionally added antimicrobial agents. Resistance may be conferred by innate structural features of the bacterial strain such as an impermeable outer membrane or a mechanism for antibiotic-inactivation. Bacteria previously susceptible to an antimicrobial compound can acquire resistance through mutation or through genetic transfer processes such as transformation, transduction, and conjugation. Resistance can also be conferred by biofilm formation on food processing surfaces as an adaptive response to protect colonies from cleaning and sanitation. Resistant pathogens are a global problem, facilitated by international trade of raw and processed foods. Cross resistance between clinical and nonclinical antimicrobials can exist and is of concern. The development of resistant foodborne pathogens has been attributed to increased antibiotic use in hospitals, outpatient facilities, and veterinary applications. Resistant microorganisms can also develop as a result of physical processes used in food preservation, such as acid treatments and irradiation processes. Strategies to effectively counter resistance development include: changing current practices of antibiotic usage, developing new antibiotics, applying hurdle preservation approaches, preventing bacterial adhesion, and utilizing competitive exclusion. This paper presents an overview of problems arising from the development of microbial resistance, and explores possible solutions for detecting and defeating the adaptive changes of microorganisms.
AbstractThe influence of the concentration of purine (PU) or adenine (AD) on the spontaneous dissolution of copper in 0.5 M Na2SO4 solutions (pH 6.8 and 1.0) was studied. The investigations involved weight loss measurements, quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) techniques and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The inhibition efficiency increases with an increase in the concentration of PU or AD. An adherent layer of inhibitors are postulated to account for the protective effect. The adsorption of both inhibitors was found to occur on the surface of copper according to the Langmuir isotherm. The values of standard free energies of adsorption suggest the chemical adsorption of PU and AD on copper surface.
AbstractThe influence of thioacetamide (TAcA), thiourea (TU) and thiobenzamide (TBA) on the corrosion of mild steel in 0.1 M H2SO4 solution has been studied in relation to the concentrations. The CSNH2 group is the common main group for these compounds and they differ only having different groups on the other side of the thiocarbonyl group. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and polarization resistance measurement (Rp) techniques have been used to obtain experimental data. The results showed that these compounds revealed a good corrosion inhibition, thiobenzamide being the most efficient and thioacetamide the least.The correlation between the molecular structures and corrosion inhibition efficiencies of TAcA, TU and TBA has been investigated using ab initio quantum chemical calculations. The structures of these compounds have been optimized, highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO), lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy levels, LUMO–HOMO energy gap and molecular orbital densities have been computed. The relations between the inhibition efficiency and quantum chemical parameters have been discussed. It was seen that there is a clear relation between the increase in corrosion inhibition and the increase of HOMO energy level. The highest values of the HOMO densities were found in the vicinity of the sulphur atom indicating it as most probable adsorption center.
Highlights•A new cadmium(II) complex, CdCl2(C6H4FNH2)2, was synthesized.•In the complex, the CdCl4N2 entities form chains of edge-charing octahedra.•The crystal packing is ensured by hydrogen bonds and π−π stacking interactions.•This material was also investigated by IR, Raman and CP-MAS NMR spectroscopies.AbstractA new Cd(II) complex with the monodentate ligand 3-fluoroaniline, CdCl2(C6H4FNH2)2, has been prepared and characterized by single crystal X-ray diffraction, solid state NMR, IR, Raman and UV–visible spectroscopies. In the complex, the Cd(II) ion is surrounded by four chlorine atoms and two nitrogen atoms, forming a chain of edge-charing octahedra spreading along the a-axis direction. These chains are interconnected via NH…Cl hydrogen bonds to form inorganic layers parallel to the (a, b) plane. The organic 3-fluorophenyl groups are inserted between these layers and are interconnected via CH…F hydrogen bonds to perform an infinite three-dimensional network. Intermolecular π–π stacking interactions between neighboring aromatic rings are also observed with a face-to-face distance of 3.6816 (4) Å. The 13C and 19F CP-MAS NMR spectra are in agreement with the X-ray structure. DFT calculations allow the attribution of the carbon peaks to the different atoms. The absorption bands of the Cd2Cl4N2 units were identified by Raman spectroscopy. The solid-state UV–vis spectrum of the complex has been assigned to ligand and charge transfer transitions.
AbstractPoly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA)/graphene nanocomposites were prepared by in situ emulsion polymerization. Raman and Fourier transform infrared spectra showed that PMMA polymer contained partially reduced graphite oxide. Dynamic mechanical analysis and differential scanning calorimetry analysis showed that graphene in the PMMA matrix acted as reinforcing filler; it enhanced the storage moduli and glass transition temperatures of the nanocomposites. Thermogravimetric analysis showed that the thermal stability of the nanocomposites increased by ca. 35 °C. The electrical conductivity of nanocomposite with 3 wt.% graphite oxide was 1.5 S m−1 at room temperature.
Highlights•Nanowire photocatalyst Bi20TiO32 was modified by carbon quantum dots (CQDs).•CQDs/Bi20TiO32 showed much higher photocatalytic activity than pure Bi20TiO32.•The introduction of CQDs accelerated separation of photo-induced charge carriers.•O2− and h+ were the dominant active species to decompose isoproturon.•PAN-CQDs/Bi20TiO32 nanofiber mats exhibited good recyclability and high stability.AbstractTo achieve the efficient utilization of solar light energy, novel carbon quantum dots (CQDs) modified Bi20TiO32 photocatalysts were prepared with different CQDs contents. The obtained photocatalysts were characterized by XRD, FT-IR, XPS, SEM, HRTEM, photoluminescence (PL) spectra, transient photocurrent and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The results showed that the CQDs were uniformly deposited on the surface of Bi20TiO32. The as-prepared CQDs/Bi20TiO32 composites were capable of utilizing both the visible and near-infrared light due to the active role of the carbon nanodots as up-converting photo-sensitizers. By the LC–MS-MS analysis, the herbicide isoproturon molecular could be firstly degraded to several intermediates and then completely mineralized. The CQDs/Bi20TiO32 photocatalysts with a CQDs content of 1% exhibited the optimum photocatalytic activity and could degrade 98.1% of isoproturon within 48 h. Its degradation rate constant was approximately 4.3 times higher than that of pure Bi20TiO32. The main active species in the photo-degradation process was h+ and O2−. To further study the recycle ability of CQDs/Bi20TiO32 photocatalyst, the PAN supported CQDs/Bi20TiO32 nanofiber mat was prepared by coaxial electrospinning method. The composite nanofiber materials showed good photocatalytic activity and recyclability, which had potential applications in water/air purification field and biochemical protective clothing.Graphical abstractHierarchical carbon quantum dots/Bi20TiO32 with enhanced photoactivity towards the degradation of isoproturon.Download full-size image
AbstractThe effect of 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (ATR) as a corrosion inhibitor for mild steel in acid media has been investigated by means of potentiodynamic polarization curves, electrochemical noise measurements (ENM) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). It appears that this compound inhibits mild steel corrosion by affecting both cathodic and anodic reactions. The experimental results obtained by ENM and EIS shown that a direct relationship can be established between the fractal dimension of the electrode surface and the Hurst exponent calculated from current and potential electrochemical noise time records, being both parameters affected by the presence of the ATR inhibitor.
AbstractThe self-assembly of apatite and proteins is a critical process to induce the formation of the bones and teeth in vertebrates. Although hierarchical structures and biomineralization mechanisms of the mineralized tissues have been intensively studied, most researches focus on the self-assembly biomimetic route using one single-molecular template, while the natural bone is an outcome of a multi-molecular template co-assembly process. Inspired by such a mechanism in nature, a novel strategy based on multi-molecular template co-assembly for fabricating bone-like hybrid materials was firstly proposed by the authors. In this review article we have summarized the new trends from single-molecular template to bi-/multi-molecular template systems in biomimetic fabrication of apatite hybrid materials. So far, many novel apatite hybrid materials with controlled morphologies and hierarchical structures have been successfully achieved using bi-/multi-molecular template strategy, and are found to have multiple common features in comparison with natural mineralized tissues. The carboxyl, carbonyl and amino groups of the template molecules are identified to initiate the nucleation of calcium phosphate during the assembling process. For bi-/multi-molecular templates, the incorporation of multiple promotion sites for calcium and phosphate ions precisely enables to regulate the apatite nucleation from the early stage. The roles of acidic molecules and the synergetic effects of protein templates have been significantly recognized in recent studies. In addition, a specific attention is paid to self-assembling of apatite nanoparticles into ordered structures on tissue regenerative scaffolds due to their promising clinical applications ranging from implant grafts, coatings to drug and gene delivery.
AbstractThe reactivity of copper in solutions of triazinedithiol (TDT) having –N(C8H17)2 as a substitution radical (–R) was evaluated using electrochemical techniques, where the effects of anodization potential, solution concentration, and electrolysis time on the corrosion inhibition of copper were investigated. Characterization of the anodized films on copper was carried out by means of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT–IR) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The corrosion inhibition properties were also examined as a function of the carbon number of –R in various TDTs.When copper was anodized in solutions containing various concentrations of (C8H17)2N–TDT the anodic polarization curves showed duplex current peaks. By anodizing copper in 5 mM (C8H17)2N–TDT solution at the potential equal to the second current peak, 1.25 V (SCE), the polymerization of the thiol groups proceeded with the simultaneous outward growth of film, which resulted in the corrosion inhibitive properties of the copper. By the introduction of long alkyl chains to TDTs, highly corrosion-resistant and water-repellent films were obtained.
AbstractImplanted biomaterials play a key role in the current success of orthopedic and dental procedures. Pure titanium and its alloys are the most commonly used materials for permanent implants in contact with bone. However, implant-related infections remain among the leading reasons for failure. The most critical pathogenic event in the development of infection on biomaterials is biofilm formation, which starts immediately after bacterial adhesion. In the last decade, numerous studies reported the ability of titanium surface modifications and coatings to minimize bacterial adhesion, inhibit biofilm formation and provide effective bacterial killing to protect implanted biomaterials. In the present review, the different strategies to prevent infection onto titanium surfaces are reported: surface modification and coatings by antibiotics, antimicrobial peptides, inorganic antibacterial metal elements and antibacterial polymers.Statement of SignificanceImplanted biomaterials play a key role in the current success of orthopedic and dental procedures. Pure titanium and its alloys are the most commonly used materials for permanent implants in contact with bone. Microbial infection is one of the main causes of implant failure. Currently, the global infection risk is 2–5% in orthopedic surgery. Numerous solutions exist to render titanium surfaces antibacterial. The LBPS team is an expert on the functionalization of titanium surfaces by using bioactive polymers to improve the biologiocal response. In this review, the different strategies to prevent infection are reported onto titanium and titanium alloy surfaces such as surface modification by antibiotics, antimicrobial peptides, inorganic antibacterial metal elements and antibacterial polymers.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (85KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Present review article written on the topic “ionic liquids as green and sustainable corrosion inhibitors”•Several ionic liquids have been used as effective corrosion inhibitors for metals and alloys.•Ionic liquids are green and sustainable chemicals to replace the traditional toxic corrosion inhibitors.•A survey on DFT study using ionic liquids has also been described in the article.AbstractDevelopment of green and sustainable technologies for the corrosion prevention is highly desirable due to increasing ecological awareness and strict environmental regulations. In the last decade, metallic corrosion inhibition using ionic liquids has attracted considerable attention due to their interesting properties such as low volatility, non-inflammability, non-toxic nature, high thermal and chemical stability and their ability to adsorb on the metallic surface. The review covers on ionic liquids as “green corrosion inhibitors” for different metals and alloys such as mild steel, aluminum, copper, zinc, and magnesium in several electrolytic media. The ionic liquids are promising, noble, green and sustainable candidates to replace the traditional volatile corrosion inhibitors and can be effectively adsorb on metallic surface. Several ionic liquids have been used successfully as corrosion inhibitors for mild steel; however their use as corrosion inhibitors for non-ferrous metals is scares. Present review also describes the mechanism adsorption behavior of ionic liquids on metallic surface in common electrolytic media using quantum chemical calculations.
AbstractOxidation Stability is one of the most important properties of fatty acid alkyl esters (biodiesel fuel) and primarily affects the stability of biodiesel during extended storage. Degradation by oxidation yields products that may compromise fuel properties, impair fuel quality and engine performance. In Europe, standardization and fuel quality assurance are crucial factors for biodiesel market acceptance, and storage stability is one of the main quality criteria. An overview of researches into biodiesel oxidation stability is presented in an attempt to convey the significance of this important property of biodiesel fuel. Aspects covered include: significance of biodiesel oxidation stability, oxidation chemistry, methods used for characterization of stability, factors known to influence stability, and consequences of biodiesel oxidation for diesel engines. The purpose of this work was to review the findings from some of the key prior research efforts available in the literature and to identify aspects of biodiesel oxidation stability in need of further study.
AbstractThe corrosion behaviour of zinc deposits obtained under pulsed current electrodeposition from an acidic chloride bath in the presence and absence of coumarin has been investigated. The effects of pulse peak current density (Jp) on the morphology of zinc deposits were studied by scanning electron microscopy. An increase in Jp from 40 to 280 A dm−2 yields deposits with a finer grain size. The refinement of the grain size was more considerable in the presence of coumarin (Jp = 280 A dm−2). The preferred orientation of zinc deposits was studied by X-ray diffraction. At Jp = 40 A dm−2, the preferred orientation of zinc deposits was (1 0 3) and changed to (0 0 2) at Jp = 80 A dm−2. An increase in Jp to 280 A dm−2 did not change the preferred crystallographic orientations except for an increase in the peak intensity of the (0 0 2) plane. In the presence of coumarin, the preferred crystallographic orientations changed at Jp = 280 A dm−2 from the (0 0 2) plane to the (1 0 3) plane. The corrosion behaviour was investigated in an aerated 3.5% NaCl solution; the anodic polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy curves were performed. The corrosion resistance of zinc deposits was improved by increasing the pulse peak current density (Jp); whereas, the presence of coumarin did not improve the corrosion resistance.
Highlights•New chemi-sensor film based Schiff base for Cu(II) detection was constructed.•The detection mechanism based on (CHEF)•The sensor film is easy to applied in aqueous solution.•With high sensitivity and selectivityAbstractIn this work, a novel optical fluoro-chemisensor was designed and synthesized for copper (II) ions detection. The sensor film is created by embedded N,N-Bis(2-hydroxo-5-bromobenzyl)ethylenediamine in poly vinyl chloride (PVC) film in presence of dioctyl phthalate (DOP) as plasticizer. The receptor Schiff base reveals “off-on” mode with high selectivity, significant sensitivity to Cu(II) ions. The selectivity of optical sensor for Cu(II) ions is the result of chelation enhanced fluorescence (CHEF). The optimal conditions of pH and response time at which higher efficiency of sensor film is performed was found to be 6.8 and 2.48 min. The possible interference of other metal ions in solution was examined in presence of different types of metal ions. This film shows high selectivity and ultra-sensitivity with low detection limit LOD (1.1 × 10− 8 M). Thus, these considerable properties make it viable to monitor copper metal ions within very low concentration range (0–15 × 10− 6 M Cu(II)) and highly selective even in the presence of different types of metal ions. The sensor reversibility was achieved by utilizing EDTA solution with concentration of 0.1 M solution.Graphical AbstractA novel optical fluoro-chemisensor was designed and synthesized for copper (II) ions detection. The sensor film is created based on the embedded of N,N-Bis(2-hydroxo-5-bromobenzyl)ethylenediamine in poly-vinyl chloride (PVC) matrix. The optimal conditions of pH and response time at which higher efficiency of sensor film is performed were found to be 6.8 and 2.48 min respectively. This film shows high selectivity and ultra-sensitivity with low detection limit of 7.6 nM.Download high-res image (211KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•A novel Fe3+/H2A/PS system was proposed to oxidize organic pollutants.•Ascorbic acid could enhance the efficiency of iron activated persulfate process.•The pollutants could be removed quickly and continuously.•The system is efficient in a wide pH0 range (2.0–6.2).•The reduction and chelating ability of H2A are responsible for the good performance.AbstractAn eco-friendly reagent, Vitamin C (ascorbic acid, H2A), has been introduced into a traditional iron activated persulfate (PS) process (Fe2+/PS). The modified Fe3+/H2A/PS system exhibits a rapid and continuous oxidation of organic contaminants, and shows great advantages over the conventional Fe2+/PS process by enhanced removal efficiency and wide working initial pH (pH0 2.0–6.2). This can be attributed to both the reduction and chelating ability of ascorbic acid. The optimal dosages of ascorbic acid, ferric ion and persulfate were determined by batch experiments. Radical quenching experiments show that SO4− and HO are the main reactive species in the Fe3+/H2A/PS process. Based on these results, a plausible degradation mechanism is proposed. The modified system may provide a simple and effective technology for the decomposition of refractory organics in water.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractIn this study, the physical and chemical characterization of produced water was done followed by treatment through sand filtration coupled with activated carbon microemulsion modified activated carbon techniques. The results of characterization showed that the produced water had high chemical oxygen demand (COD), and total organic carbon (TOC) values i.e. 10,496 and 2405 mg/l respectively as well as high concentration of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene (BTEX) and various metals. After the sand filtration, considerable reduction in TSS and COD was achieved. Furthermore, BTEX as volatile organic compounds were also removed by more than 93% except for toluene. However, sand filtration was not enough to remove most of the metals and ions. Therefore, further treatment was done through activated carbon and modified activated carbon and their treatment efficiency was compared. Both techniques were able to achieve higher removal efficiencies for BTEX, metals and ions. Thus, the treated water was free from all major pollutants of produced water and can be considered suitable for reuse at industrial or domestic level. This study aims to promote the reuse of produced water to reduce reliance on limited clean water resources.
Highlights•Sulphate reducing bacteria (SRB) were investigated in aerobic seawater.•X65 steel corroded initially with later inhibition.•Inhibition efficiency was influenced by the growth of SRB.•The biofilm played a key role in the corrosion inhibition of X65 steel.AbstractThe corrosion behavior of X65 steel was investigated in the seawater inoculated with sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB) under the aerobic environment by electrochemical impedance techniques and immersion tests. The corroded morphologies and the composition of the corrosion products were investigated. The variation of the solution parameters including the bacterium number, the pH value and the soluble iron concentration were also investigated. The results indicated that in the SRB-containing system, the impedance responses presented a depressed semi-circle in the initial period, which then turned into the blocked electrode characteristic during the later immersion. The biofilm, mainly composed of extracellular polymeric substances, Fe(OH)3, γ-FeOOH and α-Fe2O3, formed and degraded with the SRB growth. The soluble iron concentration initially increased, then rapidly decreased and later slowly increased. In the SRB-containing seawater under the aerobic environment, the X65 steel was corroded in the initial immersion. The corrosion became inhibited with the forming of the biofilm during the subsequent immersion. The inhibition efficiency rapidly increased in the logarithmic phase, remained stable in the stationary phase and then decreased in the declination phase. In the corrosion process, the biofilm metabolized by SRB played a key role in the corrosion inhibition of X65 steel.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (105KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThis study proposed that hybrid scrap cast iron particles (SIP)-aerobic biodegradation technology could enhance the biodegradability of toxic wastewater. SIP cleaved the azo linkages of Direct Green1 dye to form benzidine, 4-aminophenol, aniline and 1,2,7-triamino-8-hydroxynapthalene-3,6-disulfonic acid. SIP-mediated dye reduction was effective at wide pH range; however, kinetic analysis revealed fastest pseudo-first order dye reduction rate at acidic pH 3 (kd = 0.549 min−1) followed by pH 9 (kd = 0.383 min−1) and pH 7 (kd = 0.318 min−1). The daughter aromatic amines produced were partially adsorbed onto the SIP surface and maximally at neutral pH. The adsorption process followed pseudo-second order adsorption kinetics and Langmuir isotherm. Benzidine was adsorbed more than 4-aminophenol and aniline. BOD5 of the SIP-treated effluent increased from 0.93 to 12 mg/L showing improved biodegradability. The daughter amines were rapidly mineralized in the aerobic bioreactor within 6 h. Cost-effective SIP pre-treatment could accelerate mineralization and detoxification of recalcitrant wastewater.
Highlights•Graphene oxide–poly(urea–formaldehyde) composites with 8.6 wt.% GO sheets exhibited the optimal corrosion protection of mild steel.•Urea–formaldehyde improved the compatibility of GO sheets with epoxy coating.•Urea–formaldehyde protected lamellar GO sheets from agglomeration during ball-milling process by sacrificing UF microspheres in size.AbstractGraphene oxide–poly(urea–formaldehyde) (GUF) composites were prepared by anchoring a prepolymer of urea–formaldehyde resin onto graphene oxide (GO) sheets through in–situ polycondensation. Five GUF composites with 2.6, 4.3, 8.6, 20.8, and 34.6 wt.% GO sheets were synthesized and added into epoxy resin by ball milling. Results of sedimentation test, transmission electron microscopy, and cross–sectional microstructural analysis showed that GUF/EP coatings with 8.6 wt.% GO sheets were compatible with the polymer matrix. Electrochemical impedance spectra further revealed the optimal corrosion protection of GUF composites with 8.6 wt.% GO sheets.
Highlights•Considering the papers accomplished over the years 1965–2013.•Focusing on production methods with discussion on their wide variety of reactors.•Investigating on catalyst configurations, operational temperature and H2/CO ratio.AbstractDimethyl ether (DME) is a well-known propellant and coolant, an alternative clean fuel for diesel engines which simultaneously is capable of achieving high performance and low emission of CO, NOx and particulates in its combustion. It can be produced from a variety of feed-stocks such as natural gas, coal or biomass; and also can be processed into valuable co-products such as hydrogen as a sustainable future energy. This review, which also can be counted as an extensive, pioneer review paper on this topic, presents recent developments in synthesis methods of dimethyl ether as an alternative energy while focuses on conventional processes and innovative technologies in reactor design and employed catalysts. In this context, synthesis methods are classified according to their use of raw material type as direct and indirect methods as well as other routes, since different methods need their own operating condition. Also, the available data for the selectivity to DME and its yield as a function of H2/CO and CO2 content of the feed is discussed.
Highlights•1,4-Dioxane was evaluated in German groundwater and was detected at all sites tested.•Max. concentrations of 1,4-dioxane exceed the 0.1 μg/L assessment value at each site.•Highest concentration of 1,4-dioxane was detected in a VCH plume (152 μg/L).•Depth distribution of 1,4-dioxane exhibited strong correlation with TCE.AbstractAn effective and sensitive method for the analysis of 1,4-dioxane in water has been available since 2008 (EPA 522). This method is increasingly being applied to investigate the distribution of 1,4-dioxane in the aquatic environment. However, there is a need for more information about the possible occurrence of 1,4-dioxane in groundwater in Europe in general, and in Germany in particular, where virtually no data have been collected so far. The possible contamination of groundwater with 1,4-dioxane is of relevance to Germany because up to 70% of Germany's drinking water is obtained from groundwater and about 17% from river bank filtrate, which contains variable proportions of groundwater. The aim of the present study is to investigate selected and representative groundwater sites in Germany that have suspected occurrences of 1,4-dioxane. Five of the sites are well known for their volatile chlorinated hydrocarbon contamination, two sites have representative landfill leachate characteristics, and one site is negatively impacted by a detergent manufacturing plant. The presence of 1,4-dioxane was observed at each of these sites. Measured maximum concentration values ranged from 0.15 μg/L to 152 μg/L. An aquifer containing a trichloroethylene (TCE) plume with 1,4-dioxane as a co-contaminant was investigated in more detail. A perfect match was found between the concentrations of 1,4-dioxane and TCE in the vertical and horizontal distribution profiles. The results indicate the necessity for investigating groundwater contamination by 1,4-dioxane at sites with known 1,1,1-trichloroethane (TCA) and TCE contaminations, in landfill leachates, and at sites of detergent production.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (98KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThere is growing interest in developing bio-based polymers and innovative process technologies that can reduce the dependence on fossil fuel and move to a sustainable materials basis. Bio-nanocomposites open an opportunity for the use of new, high performance, light weight green nanocomposite materials making them to replace conventional non-biodegradable petroleum-based plastic packaging materials.So far, the most studied bio-nanocomposites suitable for packaging applications are starch and cellulose derivatives, polylactic acid (PLA), polycaprolactone (PCL), poly(butylene succinate) (PBS) and polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB). The most promising nanoscale fillers are layered silicate nanoclays such as montmorillonite and kaolinite. In food packaging, a major emphasis is on the development of high barrier properties against the diffusion of oxygen, carbon dioxide, flavor compounds, and water vapor.Moreover, several nanostructures can be useful to provide active and/or smart properties to food packaging systems, as exemplified by antimicrobial properties, oxygen scavenging ability, enzyme immobilization, or indication of the degree of exposure to some detrimental factors such as inadequate temperatures or oxygen levels. Challenges remain in increasing the compatibility between clays and polymers and reaching complete dispersion of nanoparticles.This review focuses on the enhancement of packaging performance of the green materials as well as their biodegradability, antimicrobial properties, and mechanical and thermal properties for food packaging application. The preparation, characterization and application of biopolymer-based nanocomposites with organic layered silicate and other fillers, and their application in the food packaging sector are also discussed.
AbstractA new Schiff base, (4-(benzylideneamino)benzyl)oxazolidin-2-one has been synthesised from 4-(4-aminobenzyl)oxazolidin-2-one and salicylaldehyde by a simple condensation reaction. Single-crystal X-ray analysis of (E)-4-(4-(2-hydroxybenzylideneamino) benzyl)oxazolidin-2-one (HBOA) revealed that there is a 1-D, slipped, face-to-face motif with off-set, head-to-tail stacked columns. Detailed studies on photophysical properties of the synthesised compound in solutions indicate their potential applications in the field of organic light emitting devices and nonlinear optical materials. Absorption and fluorescence study of HBOA has been conducted in a series of solvents with increasing polarity at room temperature. Ground and excited state dipole moments have been determined experimentally by using Lippert–Mataga polarity function, Bakhshiev solvent polarity parameter, Kawskii–Chamma–Viallet solvent polarity parameter and Richardt׳s microscopic solvent polarity parameter. Due to the considerable π-electron density redistribution, the excited state dipole moment was found to be larger than that of the ground state. The ground state dipole moment value was determined by quantum chemical method which was used to estimate excited state dipole moment through solvatochromic correlations. Kamlet–Taft and Catalan methods were used to get the information of both non-specific solute–solvent interactions and hydrogen bonding interactions. TD-DFT (B3LYP/6-311G(d,p)) has been used for the determination of HOMO–LUMO energies. Mulliken charges and Molecular electrostatic potential were also evaluated from DFT calculations.
AbstractHomogeneous and strongly adherent polypyrrole (PPy) films were electrochemically synthesized on iron electrodes in sodium tartrate (Na2C4O6H4 0.2 M) aqueous solution. This one step pyrrole electropolymerization process has been successfully achieved under different electrochemical techniques, such as potentiodynamic, galvanostatic and potentiostatic modes. During the first stage of the electrochemical process the tartrate counterion slows down the iron dissolution by leading to the formation of a passivation layer on the working electrode surface, and the pyrrole electropolymerization takes place. The electrosynthesized polymer deposit has been characterized by several microscopic and spectroscopic techniques. Any iron traces have been detected by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) on the outer side of the PPy films, which confirms the compactness and the homogeneity of the polymeric coating. Scanning electronic microscopy (SEM) imaging showed uniform and compact PPy coatings with cauliflower-like structure. Infra-red (IR) and Raman spectroscopies proved that the obtained PPy films have the same vibrational properties as those electrodeposited on noble Pt plates.
The long-range biological imperative for survival has its economic counterpart. The present techno-economic system, with its heavy dependence on exhaustible stocks of natural resources, including environmental waste assimilative capacity, is unsustainable. The stocks of high quality raw materials, such as fuels and metal ores, are being drawn down rapidly. But this is the least of the problems because of possible technical ‘fixes’. More ominous, there is an irreversible disappearance of tropical rainforests and other valuable and irreplaceable ecosystems, erosion of topsoil, a buildup of toxic heavy metals in soils and sediments, an accumulation of ‘greenhouse gases’ in the atmosphere, and a catastrophic loss of biological diversity. None of these trends is reversible by any known or plausible technological intervention. Long-run human survival therefore requires that the use of the environment as a ‘sink’ for waste residuals, especially from fossil fuel combustion and dissipative uses of heavy metals, must be slowed down drastically in the near future. The paper examines the relevant economic adjustment mechanisms in terms of both ‘standard’ neo-classical and evolutionary theories. It concludes that a policy based on reliance on market signals (i.e. prices) alone to induce change is likely to be ineffective. Even if the polluter pays principle (PPP) were fully implemented, market mechanisms would not suffice. The problem is that existing large-scale systems evolved during a period when environmental concerns were not serious, and now retain their economic dominance partly due to economies of scale and partly through influence over the political system.
AbstractBiodegradable stents are an attractive alternative to self-expanding metal stents in the treatment of intestinal strictures. Biodegradable stent can be made of biodegradable polymers and biodegradable metals (magnesium alloys). An overview on current biodegradable intestinal stents is presented. The future trends and perspectives in the development of biodegradable intestinal stents are proposed. For the biodegradable polymer intestinal stents, the clinical trials have shown promising results, although improved design of stents and reduced migration rate are expected. For the biodegradable magnesium intestinal stents, results of preliminary studies indicate magnesium alloys to have good biocompatibility. With many of the key fundamental and practical issues resolved and better methods for adjusting corrosion resistance and progressing biocompatibilities of magnesium alloys, it is possible to use biodegradable intestinal stents made of magnesium alloys in hospital in the not too distant future.
Highlights•The effect of buffers on Se(IV)/Se(VI) removal by ZVI was studied at various pH0.•Buffers inhibited Se(IV) removal at pH0 > 6.0 and Se(VI) removal at pH0 4.0–10.0.•Buffers inhibited ZVI corrosion and the adsorption of Se on corroded ZVI surface.•The suitability of employing buffer in some reactions need to be evaluated.AbstractMany studies used buffers to control pH during the reaction of ZVI, but the effect of buffer solutions received little attention. In this study, the effect of buffers on selenite (Se(IV)) and selenate (Se(VI)) removal by ZVI was systematically investigated. It was found that the addition of buffers can hinder the corrosion of ZVI, and then affect Se removal. Although the removal of Se(IV) by ZVI at initial pH (pH0) 4.0 was accelerated due to the presence of buffer, less Se(IV) was removed in buffered systems than that in unbuffered systems at pH0 ≥ 6.0. Buffers also dramatically inhibited Se(VI) sequestration at pH0 4.0–10.0. These effects were caused by the buffers instead of their influence on pH variation during the reaction, evidenced by the experiments that decoupled pH effect from overall buffer influences. The zeta potentials of the suspension in buffered systems were more negative than those in the unbuffered systems, implying the adsorption of buffer onto the ZVI surface. Accordingly, the effect of buffers observed in this study was mainly caused by its adsorption on ZVI surface, which may interfere the corrosion of ZVI as well as the adsorption of Se(IV)/Se(VI) on the surface of corroded ZVI, the first step of Se(IV)/Se(VI) sequestration by ZVI. These results suggest that it requires careful evaluation for the suitability of buffers in some reactions to study the kinetics and mechanisms.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (62KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Three new bis-Schiff bases inhibitors were synthesized and characterized.•All these inhibitors have good resistance to hydrochloric acid corrosion.•The adsorption behavior of L3 followed the Langmuir adsorption isotherm•Three bis-Schiff base corrosion inhibitors were studies by Quantum chemistry calculation.AbstractThree new bis-Schiff bases, including bis(2-aminofluorene) glyoxal(L1), bis(2-aminofluorene) p-phthalaldehyde (L2) and bis(2-aminofluorene) 4,4′-biphenyldicarboxaldehyde (L3), were synthesized and characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and mass spectrometry (MS). Weight loss methods indicated that all these inhibitors have good resistance to 1.0 mol·L−1 hydrochloric acid corrosion, and the highest inhibition efficiency was 98.2% at 65 °C for L3. Polarization curves and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) indicated that L3 exhibited excellent inhibition effect when concentration was 1.0 mmol·L−1. Moreover, the L3 was adsorbed spontaneously onto the surface by both physisorption and chemisorption, which followed the Langmuir adsorption isotherm. The relationship between molecular structure and quantum chemical structure parameters of three bis-Schiff base corrosion inhibitors was studied by Quantum chemistry calculation performed by density function theory (DFT) method. Results showed that L3 had excellent inhibition performance, which was consistent with experimental results.
AbstractThe shuttling of soluble polysulfides between electrodes is the main factor leading to the rapid capacity fading of Li-S batteries. A functional rich amine porous organic polymer/acetylene black-polypropylene (RAPOP/AB-PP) separator was prepared using a straightforward coating modification of the commercial PP separator to improve the electrochemical performance of Li–S batteries. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and discharge/charge tests using S electrodes as research electrodes determined that the abundant amount of imine groups of RAPOPs exhibited strong anchoring properties toward Li polysulfides. The tests also confirmed that the RAPOP/AB-PP separator could effectively inhibit the shuttling of polysulfides. During discharge, the modified separator adsorbed the polysulfides from the electrolyte on the surface of the S electrode and formed a thin layer of Li polysulfide. In addition, this accumulation layer inhibited the diffusion of Li polysulfide through the separator toward the Li electrode. The initial and 800 cycle discharge capacity densities of the RAPOP/AB-PP-1.7 membrane were 1322 and 897 mAh g−1 (at the current density of 0.2 mA cm−2), respectively which were much higher than the 1121 and 481 mAh g−1 corresponding values for the polypropylene separator. In addition, the RAPOP/AB-PP separator possessed a higher electrolyte uptake capacity (114%) than the PP separator (88%). Outstanding electrolyte wettability caused the ion conductivity (1.08 × 10−1 mS cm−1) of the RAPOP/AB-PP membrane to be much higher than that of the PP separator (1.19 × 10−2 mS cm−1). Therefore, the excellent electrochemical performance of the RAPOP/AB-PP separator could be ascribed to the polar RAPOP/AB coating not only alleviating the shuttle effect but also facilitating Li+ ions migration.
AbstractThe epoxy/acrylic rubber (ACM)/montmorillonite (MMT) nanocomposites have been prepared by simple solvent blending. The morphologies, storage modulus, glass transition temperatures, and physical properties have been investigated systematically. The decreased sizes and increased numbers of the epoxy domains in the epoxy/ACM blends were observed with the incorporation of MMT. The crosslinked epoxy/ACM binary blends show partially miscible phase structure, while the epoxy/ACM/MMT nanocomposites exhibit a more complete phase-separated behavior and an increased Tg of epoxy phase. It was found that the catalytic effect of MMT on the crosslinking reaction of epoxy resin accounts for the more complete separation of the two phases. A novel crosslinking induced clay exfoliation has been observed for the ternary nanocomposites. More surprisingly, a synergistic effect of MMT on both toughness and tensile modulus of epoxy/ACM blend were observed, probably originated from the fine domain sizes and appropriate interface-dispersed MMT platelets in the ternary nanocomposites. The fabricated materials have been used as the adhesive films for polyimide films and copper foils. The adhesive strength of the binary epoxy/ACM blends was found to be dependent on the thickness of the adhesive films. Moreover, a preferable increment in the adhesive property of epoxy/ACM/3 wt% MMT adhesive film was observed, resulting from the synergistic effect of the fine degree of crosslinking and tearing fracture of the adhesive film.
AbstractAmong the various conducting polymers, polypyrrole (PPy) is one of the most studied systems for electrochemical synthesis on active metals due to its interesting properties (low oxidation potential, corrosion resistance and biocompatibility). The present work investigates the electropolymerization of pyrrole (Py) on Ni and Ti substrates modified with 1-pyrrolyl-10-decylammoniumphosphonate (PyDPA) (graphical abstract). The self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) of PyDPA improve the corrosion resistance of Ni and Ti and the adherence of the PPy films. The characteristics of the electropolymerized Py films on the PyDPA SAMs appear to be significantly dependent on the nature of the underlying modified substrate (Ni or Ti). A faster electropolymerization process with longer and more stable polymer chains is obtained in the case of Ni, while a slower electropolymerization process due to an incomplete nucleation step (after 30 min in potentiostatic conditions) is observed for Ti modified by PyDPA.Graphical abstractSchematic representation of the work methodology (SAM formation and/or electropolymerization of pyrrole).Download high-res image (125KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe electrochemical oxidation of 2-mercaptobenzimidazole (MBIH) on a copper substrate in alkaline methanol solution was investigated by cyclic voltammetry, chronoamperommetry, and quartz crystal microbalance. Cyclic voltammograms indicated that the polymer film (pMBIH) is formed anodically and this film cannot be reduced by cathodic potential scan. However, one potential cycle is not sufficient to form a good barrier layer, and the anodic current peak is observed on subsequent cycles, though its height decreases for each cycle. If the film formations were performed at a constant potential, an EQCM showed the adsorption of MBIH before the anodic oxidation of this monomer leading to the film formation. The film forming efficiency was maximum at ca. 0.8 VSCE though the film thickness increased up to 1.2 VSCE. A thicker film was obtained by potential scan method. From a long period impedance measurement, it was shown that the polymer film thus obtained on copper exhibited a high protective effectiveness.
Highlights•Fe/Ni nanoparticles were supported on the polystyrene cation exchange resin D072.•For the first time Fe/Ni-D072 composite was used to dechlorinate TCE.•The effects of various factors on the TCE removal efficiency were investigated.•The stability and durability of Fe/Ni-D072 was examined.•Fe/Ni-D072 can be a promising catalyst for removing TCE.AbstractIn this study, Fe, Ni, and Fe/Ni nanoparticles were successfully incorporated in commercial polystyrene cation exchange resin, D072, to form Fe-D072, Ni-D072, and Fe/Ni-D072 composites. The resultant composites were characterized by scanning electron microscopy-energy dispersive spectrometer and X-ray diffraction. For the first time, the resultant composites were used to dechlorinate trichloroethylene (TCE), the target pollutant, in aqueous solution. The effects of initial concentration of TCE and solution pH on TCE removal efficiencies by Fe/Ni-D072 were investigated. The stability and durability of Fe/Ni-D072 were also examined. Results showed that Fe/Ni-D072 with 4% wt of Ni/Fe loading (mass ratio: Ni:Fe = 20:80) possesses superior dechlorination performance compared with TCE to Fe-D072 and Ni-D072. The freshly prepared Fe/Ni-D072 exhibited high reactivity during the dechlorination process of TCE. However, reactivity decreased with increased number of cycles. The leaching of Fe and Ni ions from Fe/Ni-D072 were approximately 0.2 ppm and less than 0.1 ppm, respectively, which are below the maximum acceptable level of Fe and Ni in water (0.3 mg/L for Fe and 0.1 mg/L for Ni) as suggested by the US Environment Protection Agency (EPA). The study confirmed that Fe/Ni-D072 is a potential catalyst to reduce environmental pollutants containing carbon halogen bonds such as TCE.
Highlights•Ag nanoparticles with an average size of 6.9 nm were reduced on montmorillonite.•Ag nanoparticles were fixed in montmorillonite pores forming a stable nanocomposite.•Ag in the nanocomposite showed catalytic activity for reduction of 4-nitrophenol.•Reaction kinetics was explained by the Langmuir–Hinshelwood model.AbstractSilver ions previously intercalated into a montmorillonite (MMT) interlayer were reduced by sodium borohydride forming a nanocomposite of MMT and silver nanoparticles (Ag–MMT) with no other stabilizing additives. Within 360 min no coagulation of an aqueous Ag–MMT dispersion was observed. However, after 24 h the coagulation was indicated by a red shift of absorption maximum from 408 nm to 434 nm and by broadening of the absorbance band.The nanocomposite was characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) and measurements of specific surface area (SSA). It contained 4.94 wt. % of silver. Ag nanoparticles with an average size of 6.9 nm were located on the external MMT surface, mostly in its pores.Ag–MMT was used as a catalyst for reduction of 4-nitrophenol with sodium borohydride forming 4-aminophenol. After 30 s the reaction kinetics changed from zero order to first order, which was explained by means of the Langmuir–Hinshelwood model. The whole reduction was completed after 290 s. During this time min. 95 wt. % of Ag nanoparticles stayed fixed on the MMT support.
AbstractFibre-reinforced plastic materials or composites are recognised as possessing superior specific properties when compared to conventional engineering materials. However, the widespread use of these materials is still limited, with engineering designers choosing to stick with what they know best. This unfortunately tends to stifle innovation and leads to sub-optimal solutions. This article provides a simplified introduction to the technology of fibre-reinforced thermosetting plastics from the perspective of the information requirements of engineering designers. The use of detailed descriptions has been kept to a minimum and a concentration on the most regularly used material types, properties and manufacturing processes. The aim of this article is to help engineering designers, who are not familiar with this technology, obtain a reasonable understanding and sufficient knowledge to pursue relevant topics further.
AbstractInspired by naturally occurring species that allow for self-healing of nonfatal harm, self-healing polymeric materials have been prepared and represent a component of the intelligent materials family. These materials possess the inherent ability to rehabilitate damage produced during manufacturing and/or usage. The self-healing methodologies developed to date can be classified as intrinsic or extrinsic according to the method used to deliver the healing components to the target site in the material. Intrinsic self-healing operates through inter- or intra-macromolecular interactions, whereas extrinsic self-healing makes use of a pre-embedded healing agent. Extrinsic self-healing can be more easily realized in commercially available polymers because no structural modification of the matrix molecules is required. In recent years, extrinsic self-healing based on microencapsulated healing agents has attracted growing interest. Extrinsic self-healing in a variety of materials (including thermosets, thermoplastics, rigid, and elastomeric materials) has been demonstrated and offers recovery of both mechanical and non-structural functional properties. Self-healing based on microcapsules can deliver further results if combined with intrinsic self-healing. Using a bottom-up perspective, the current article presents a comprehensive review of recent progress in this field from the viewpoint of material design and preparation. The topics presented include (i) a basic overview of self-healing systems, (ii) microencapsulation techniques (e.g., in situ polymerization, interfacial polymerization, Pickering emulsion templating, miniemulsion polymerization, solvent evaporation/solvent extraction, sol–gel reaction, etc.), (iii) crack response of microcapsules, and (iv) healing chemistries (e.g., ring-opening metathesis polymerization, polycondensation, anionic ring opening polymerization, cationic polymerization, free radical polymerization, addition reaction, etc.). The strengths and weaknesses of each microencapsulation technique and type of healing chemistry are analyzed and compared. Additionally, formulation optimization (including species of healing agent and wall substance of capsules), processing, structure and property relationship, healing mechanisms, and stability are discussed. Trends and challenges are summarized at the end of the review. The scope of this review is to provide the reader with an overview of achievements to date and insight into future development for engineering applications.
Highlights•Influence of low irradiance is investigated on a CuInS2/TiO2/SnO2 photocatalytic tandem.•UV-shares larger than 25% in the irradiance mix lead to photo-corrosion on the thin film.•There is a threshold above which irradiance increase is no longer justified by efficiency.•NaCl 3.5% addition allowed methylene blue removal efficiencies up to 99%.•Electrolytes effect on the MB removal efficiency depends on their crystallization tendency.AbstractMany photocatalyitc laboratory experiments are developed at low (and different) irradiance values, making the results difficult to benchmark. This study analyzes the influence of the low irradiance, photon flux and the UV share on the photodegradation kinetics and efficiency of methylene blue (MB) using a hetero-structured thin film photocatalyst. The results show that the photon flux influences the process kinetic after an induction period and it was found that increasing irradiance has positive effect on the photo-catalytic efficiency, if UV does not exceed 25%, when photo-corrosion becomes significant. In the experimental conditions, the efficiency is also moderately influenced by the photon flux vales. Electrolytes are usually part of industrial or residential wastewaters, with multiple consequences among which accelerated photo-corrosion but also increased local charge transfer (thus decreased recombination) on the photocatalytic surface. The addition of two common electrolytes that are not hydrolysing (NaCl and CaCl2) into the dye solution was correlated with the chemical stability of the CIS/TiO2/SnO2 hetero-structure and the removal/mineralization efficiencies. The highest photodegradation efficiency (99%) was reached when 3.5% NaCl was used. The photocorossion increase up to 24.03% after 24 h when the photocatalyst is immersed in 3.5% NaCl electrolyte at 23 W/m2 UV/vis irradiance and 120 μmol/(m2 s) photon flux.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (153KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe anodic electrochemical behavior of AZ61 magnesium alloy in sodium hydroxide medium in the absence and presence of p-nitro-benzene-azo-resorcinol (PNBAR) was studied using electrochemical techniques. In the presence of PNBAR, organic conversion film formed on the surface of magnesium alloy. The nature of chemical mechanisms, bonds, and structures at the interface of PNBAR/magnesium alloy was investigated by using energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS) analysis and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. An in situ electrochemical deposition was evidenced to produce a corrosion protective barrier by the formation of organic conversion film of magnesium-PNBAR complex and to enhance film adhesion by the covalent bonds of MgON linkage. The linear sweep voltammetry experiments and the score tests were used to investigate the adhesion and evaluate the potential of corrosion resistance of organic conversion film. The results indicated the corrosion resistance of magnesium alloy was improved, the organic conversion film showed excellent adhesion not only to the substrate but also to the outer paint coatings.
AbstractMagnetic ion exchange (MIEX) is an effective process for removing dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from natural waters, but its implementation has been limited due to production of waste sodium chloride solution (i.e., brine) from the regeneration process. Chloride is of concern because elevated concentrations can have adverse effects on engineered and natural systems. The goal of this research was to explore the efficacy of using anion exchange resin with bicarbonate as the mobile counter ion, which would produce a non-chloride regeneration solution. It was found that bicarbonate-form MIEX resin had a similar affinity as chloride-form MIEX resin for sulfate, nitrate, DOC, and ultraviolet-absorbing substances. Both bicarbonate-form and chloride-form MIEX resins showed the greatest removal efficiencies as fresh resin, and removal efficiency decreased with multiple regeneration cycles. Nevertheless, sodium bicarbonate solution was as effective as sodium chloride solution at regenerating MIEX resin. Regeneration of the bicarbonate-form MIEX resin was illustrated by sparging carbon dioxide gas in a water/resin slurry. This regeneration process would eliminate the need for the addition of salts such as sodium chloride or sodium bicarbonate. The stoichiometry of the bicarbonate-form resin revealed that the bicarbonate was deprotonating within the resin matrix leading to a mixture of both carbonate and bicarbonate mobile counter ions. This work makes an important contribution to ion exchange applications for water treatment by evaluating the affinity, regeneration, and stoichiometry of bicarbonate-form anion exchange.
Highlights•Biogenic corrosion on ribbed rebars with different bending angle was investigated.•Sulfuric acid was used in three different molarity (0.5 M, 1 M and 1.5 M).•The cross section of 12 mm straight rebars was decreased between 2.8% and 5.5% in 1.5 M acidic media.•Rebar diameter and bent angle increased H2 evolution and corrosion rate reduced.•The steel bar that exposed to 1.5 M acidic media presented a more serious corrosion on the surface.AbstractReinforcement steel rebar corrosion leads to a deterioration of the bond between the concrete and the steel bars. The serviceability and ultimate strength of concrete elements within reinforced structures are accordingly affected. Many studies have been done on the different types of steel bar corrosion. However, very few studies have investigated the effects of restrictions on the degradation of steel when exposed to sulfuric acid corrosion on bent steel rebars. In the present paper, investigations were carried out to study the corrosion behavior of unprotected low-carbon ribbed reinforcing steel exposed to different concentrations of H2SO4 solutions. The ribbed steel bars were of size Ø12, Ø14, Ø16 and bent at angles of angles of 0°, 45°, 90° and 135°. The weight loss method was used for the estimation of the corrosion. The results show that the corrosion rate and cross-section loss of steel bars increases with increasing acid concentration from 0.5 M to 1.5 M. On the other hand, corrosion deterioration was decreased with an increased bending angle.
Highlights•The corrosion inhibition of 4-amidinophenyl-2,2′-bithiophene (MA-0944) and its aza-analogue (MA-0949) was investigated.•The inhibition efficiency increased in the following order: MA-0949 > MA-0944.•The adsorption of bichalcophene derivatives follows the Langmuir adsorption isotherm.•Quantum chemical parameters were calculated using DFT methods.•The adsorption energies were calculated using Molecular Dynamic Simulation.AbstractBichalcophene series namely 4-(2,2′-bithiophene-5-yl) benzamidine (MA-0944) and 6-(2,2′-bithiophene-5-yl) nicotinamidine (MA-0949) were evaluated as corrosion inhibitors for carbon steel (CS) in 1 M HCl using nonelectrochemical and electrochemical techniques. The results revealed that the tested compounds are efficient corrosion inhibitors and their inhibition percentage (η %) reached 98.3% at 18 × 10− 6 M. The tested compounds are classified as mixed-type inhibitors. The adsorption of the investigated compounds corresponds to Langmuir adsorption isotherm. The surface morphology of the CS surface was analyzed using Attenuated Total Reflectance-infrared spectra (ATR-IR), and Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM). The inhibition property was further elucidated by theoretical approaches; quantum chemical calculation, Natural Bonding Orbital (NBO) analysis, Molecular Dynamic Simulation and Radial Distribution Function (RDF). The theoretical data support the experimental results.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (145KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Static immersion corrosion test to simulate storage conditions of Moringa biodiesel.•Carbon steels of varied composition were evaluated and metal release measured.•Oxidation stability of biodiesel decreased as corrosion started.•The antioxidant TBHQ retarded the corrosion as iron release decreased.•Addition of TBHQ is required to extend storage stability of Moringa biodiesel.AbstractThe corrosive character of Moringa oleifera Lam biodiesel was evaluated through static immersion tests with different carbon steels (CS1015 and CS4140) in absence and presence of the antioxidant tert-butylhydroquinone (TBHQ), at room temperature in the absence of light for 84 days. Biodiesel parameters, including oxidation stability (induction period, IP), total acid number (TAN) and iron concentration released from carbon steel, were monitored. The produced biodiesel presented an IP value of 4.9 h, which was increased to 6.2 h after the addition of 500 mg kg−1 TBHQ. After 84 days of immersion, IP values decreased in the first 21 days due to the contact with the metallic coupon, while TBHQ retarded this process. TAN value increased in 20% but the values were below the recommended limits (<0.5 mg g−1 KOH according to EN14214). Iron was detected in the biodiesels exposed to CS1015 (8 μg g−1), while in the presence of TBHQ this value decreased to 5 μg g−1, indicating corrosion inhibition by TBHQ. Iron was not detected in the biodiesels exposed to CS4140, which indicated that this material was more compatible with biodiesel. Notably, the oxidation stability of Moringa biodiesel was not affected (IP > 3 h) by the high Fe content.
AbstractTitanium and its alloys are commonly used as dental and bone implant materials. Biomimetic coating of titanium surfaces could improve their osteoinductive properties. In this work, we have developed a novel osteogenic composite nanocoating for titanium surfaces, which provides a natural environment for facilitating adhesion, proliferation, and osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Electrospinning was used to produce composite nanofiber coatings based on polycaprolactone (PCL), nano-hydroxyapatite (nHAp) and strontium ranelate (SrRan). Thus, four types of coatings, i.e., PCL, PCL/nHAp, PCL/SrRan, and PCL/nHAp/SrRan, were applied on titanium surfaces. To assess chemical, morphological and biological properties of the developed coatings, EDS, FTIR, XRD, XRF, SEM, AFM, in-vitro cytotoxicity and in-vitro hemocompatibility analyses were performed. Our findings have revealed that the composite nanocoatings were both cytocompatible and hemocompatible; thus PCL/HAp/SrRan composite nanofiber coating led to the highest cell viability. Osteogenic culture of MSCs on the nanocoatings led to the osteogenic differentiation of stem cells, confirmed by alkaline phosphatase activity and mineralization measurements. The findings support the notion that the proposed composite nanocoatings have the potential to promote new bone formation and enhance bone-implant integration.
AbstractThe importance of chemical composition and microstructure on CO2 corrosion of carbon and low alloy steels has been widely recognized, still contradictory results can be found in the literature. The aim of this work is to assess the relationship between microstructure, surface condition and inhibitor efficiency in CO2 corrosion. A C–Mn steel with two different microstructures was tested in a deoxygenated 5% wt. NaCl solution saturated with CO2 at 40 °C, pH 6. A commercial imidazoline-based inhibitor was added after different pre-corrosion periods. The results obtained showed that pre-corrosion decreases the inhibitor efficiency, but that its impact is microstructure dependent.
AbstractA method for the analysis of dyes and vehicles within writing inks was developed. The method was tested on a set of 18 black ink pens comprised of 6 ballpoint, 6 gel, and 6 rollerball pens. The sampling procedure utilized a small number of ink-coated paper fibers collected surreptitiously from the document, causing minimal damage and providing a sufficient quantity of ink for analysis. Methanol proved suitable for the extraction of ink components from ballpoint, gel and rollerball pens. Three separate electrospray ionisation-mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) methods were required to detect the dyes and vehicles from the inks. The ions present in the ESI-MS spectra at a signal-to-noise ratio of greater than 3:1 provided sufficient information to allow differentiation between the inks of each type. A tentative identification of the ink components was made based on a comparison of the ions present in the ink extract ESI-MS spectra with the ions present in a series of standards. The limits of detection for the standards were generally in the 2.5–10 ppm range. The method reported here extends the ESI-MS method of ink analysis to include gel and rollerball pens, includes the analysis of vehicles as well as dyes in the inks and demonstrates a minimally destructive sampling method that does not require a “biopsy” of the document.
Highlights•New working fluids were studied for a double-effect AHP cycle.•The thermodynamic properties of the new working fluids were systematically measured.•The COP based on LiNO3–IL–H2O is close to that based on LiNO3H2O and LiBr–H2O.•LiNO3–IL–H2O aids in solving the crystallization problem of LiNO3H2O.•Corrosion caused by LiBr–H2O is relieved by using LiNO3–[BMIM]Br–H2O.AbstractIn this work, LiNO3–[EMIM]Cl–H2O and LiNO3–[BMIM]Br–H2O were investigated for a double-effect AHP cycle. The vapor pressure, crystallization temperature, specific heat capacity and specific enthalpy of LiNO3–[EMIM]Cl–H2O were measured systematically and fitted by a least squares method. The vapor pressure of LiNO3–[BMIM]Br–H2O was extended to higher pressures in this study, and other thermodynamic properties were studied in our previous study. The corrosion rates of carbon steel and copper in the two ternary working fluids were measured with a weight loss method at 435.15 K. Based on the measured data, LiNO3–[EMIM]Cl–H2O and LiNO3–[BMIM]Br–H2O were evaluated for the crystallization issue, corrosion issue, as well as the COP in a double-effect AHP cycle for hot water. The COP of the LiNO3–[EMIM]Cl–H2O and LiNO3–[BMIM]Br–H2O system was close to that of the LiNO3H2O and LiBr–H2O system. However, the crystallization temperatures of the new working fluids were at least 20 K lower than that of LiNO3H2O. The corrosiveness of LiNO3–[BMIM]Br–H2O was much less than that of LiBr–H2O and LiNO3–[EMIM]Cl–H2O. The disadvantage whereby LiBr–H2O caused corrosion was relieved by using LiNO3–[BMIM]Br–H2O. LiNO3–[BMIM]Br–H2O can be used as an alternative working fluid in a double-effect AHP cycle and other absorption systems at a high temperature.
Highlights•Effect of oxygen enrichment on acid gas (H2S and CO2) combustion was examined.•Increase in the percentage of oxygen enrichment increased the rate of SO2 production.•CO2-laden acid gas had faster rates of reactants decomposition/products evolution.•Existence of CO in the reaction pool was evident on CO2 role as an oxidizer provider.•Presence of CO enhanced the rate of other sulfurous compounds formation, CS2 and COS.AbstractResults are presented to examine the combustion of acid gas (H2S and CO2) in hydrogen-fueled flames using a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen under Claus conditions (Φ = 3). Specifically the effect of oxygen enrichment in the above flames is examined. The compositions of acid gas examined are100% H2S and 50% H2S/50% CO2 with different percentages of oxygen enrichment (0%, 19.3% and 69.3%) in the oxygen/nitrogen mixtures. The results revealed that combustion of acid gas formed SO2 wherein the mole fraction of SO2 increased to an asymptotic value at all the oxygen concentrations examined. In addition, increase in oxygen enrichment of the air resulted in increased amounts of SO2 rather than the formation of more desirable elemental sulfur. In case of 50% H2S/50% CO2 acid gas, carbon monoxide mole fraction increased with oxygen enrichment which is an indicator to the availability of additional amounts of oxygen into the reaction pool. This gas mixture resulted in the formation of other sulfurous–carbonaceous compounds (COS and CS2) due to the presence of carbon monoxide. The results showed that the rate of COS formation increased with oxygen enrichment due to the availability of higher amounts of CO while that of CS2 reduced. The global reactions responsible for this observed phenomenon are presented.
AbstractA new solid phase extraction method for the speciation, separation and preconcentration of Cr(III) and Cr(VI) was developed. As solid phase material, a new chelating resin, poly N-(4-bromophenyl)-2-methacrylamide-co-2-acrylamido-2-methyl-1-propanesulfonic acid-co-divinylbenzene was synthesized. Cr(III) was separated from Cr(VI) and preconcentrated by using a column containing chelating resin. Total chromium was determined after the reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) by hydroxylamine hydrochloride as a reducing agent. Then Cr(VI) was calculated by substracting Cr(III) concentration from the total chromium concentration. The parameters such as the effect of pH, eluent type, volume and concentration, flow rate of sample solution, sample volume and effect of interfering ions for the preconcentration of Cr(III) were investigated. The optimum pH was found to be 2. Eluent for quantitative elution was 10 mL of 1 mol L−1 HCl. The preconcentration factor of the method was 100. At the optimum conditions determined experimentally, the recovery for Cr(III) was found to be 95 ± 3%. The limit of detection (3s/b) of the method was 1.58 μg L−1. In order to determine the adsorption behaviour of chelating resin, the adsorption isotherm of Cr(III) was studied. Adsorption capacity and binding equilibrium constant were calculated to be 21.8 mg g−1 and 1.32 ×10−2 L mg−1, respectively. The method was validated by analysing certified reference material (TMDA-54.4 a trace element fortified calibration standard). The proposed method was applied to the determination and speciation of chromium in tap water, lake water, spring water and wastewater samples with satisfactory results.
AbstractThe solvent content of a thermally cured coil-coating paint may be reduced by introducing a reactive diluent derived from a vegetable oil and thereby producing a coating partly based on a renewable resource. A reactive diluent acts as a solvent in the liquid paint, lowering the viscosity, and is then incorporated into the film during cure. In the present study, rape seed methyl ester (RME) has been evaluated as reactive diluent in a thermally cured hydroxyl-functional polyester/melamine system. RME has suitable diluting properties and functionality to be incorporated into the dry coating. Dynamic mechanical analysis of free standing films shows that the final film properties are affected by presence of reactive diluent, oven temperature, choice of co-solvent, and flash-off period.
Highlights•Lag phase of caproate formation was shortened by 13 d with lignocellulosic ethanol.•Insufficiency of ethanol limited further elongation of butyrate into caproate.•Lignocellulosic ethanol as feedstock enriched the microbial community.•Cellulose and yeast extract shortened the lag phase of caproate production.•Yeast extract boosted bacterial growth thus improving fermentation performance.AbstractChain elongation is a promising mixed culture bioprocess to convert acetate into medium chain carboxylates with ethanol as an electron donor. Caproate production using lignocellulosic ethanol (LE) as feedstock via chain elongation fermentation was examined in this study. Meanwhile, the effects of yeast extract and cellulose containing in the LE were investigated separately. Fermentation performance showed that the lag phase of caproate production were shortened in experimental group LE (4 days), yeast extract (6 days), and cellulose (9 days) compared with the control group (17 days) without extra supplement. The insufficiency of electron donor, ethanol, limited further elongation into caproate, resulting in comparable caproate yields and carbon conversion ratios in four experimental groups. Microbial community and microbial kinetics analysis revealed that yeast extract could be metabolized by protein-utilizing bacteria into short chain carboxylates (SCCs), which facilitated biological chain elongation. Meanwhile, yeast extract boosted microbial growth by serving as nitrogen and other nutrient sources. Furthermore, cellulose was utilized and further converted into SCCs, or even caproate, by cellulolytic bacteria. Together, caproate production was enhanced with high microbial activities and intermediates formation using LE. This study upgrades LE into a higher energy density product, caproate, via the energy-efficient chain elongation fermentation.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (153KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Study of salicylic acid (SA) loaded into halloysite (Hal) system in aqueous medium.•Hal/SA system stabilizes aqueous Hal suspensions.•Hal/SA system releases SA in a controlled way over 50 h.•The antibacterial activity of Hal/SA system is tested by calorimetry.•Hal/SA system shows antibacterial activity at lower concentrations than free SA.AbstractIn this work halloysite (Hal) nanotubes were used as nanocontainers for salycilic acid (SA) in a perspective of its use in active packaging for food industry. The system Hal/SA was investigated for its ability to stabilize Hal suspensions by turbidimetry, its release kinetics in water by UV spectroscopy and its antibacterial activity against Pseudomonas fluorescens IMA 19/5 by Isothermal Micro Calorimetry (IMC). IMC is a sensitive and non-destructive technique and allows the study of a wide range of relatively slow processes (hours and days) in solutions. The system Hal/SA resulted to stabilize Hal suspension in water and to release SA in a controlled way over 50 h. Moreover the SA released by Hal/SA showed an antibacterial activity at lower concentrations than free SA, likely due to the close contact of bacteria and Hal in the reaction vessel.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (51KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe electrosynthesis of polypyrrole (PPy) has been achieved on aluminum electrode in aqueous medium of 0.1 M saccharin sodium salt and 0.5 M pyrrole. Scanning electron microscopy shows that the PPy coating obtained in galvanostatic and potentiostatic modes starts with small islands at weak applied potentials or current densities. Moreover, energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) reveal a good homogeneity of the film achieved in cyclic voltammetry during 10 cycles. The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) results show that the coating decreases the polarization resistance of the aluminum electrode. The open circuit potential (OCP) and dc polarization measurements achieved in HCl and NaCl solutions displayed a large positive displacement of corrosion potential and a reduction of corrosion current in the case of PPy coating electrode in comparison with electrode bare.
AbstractThe influence of silicate on the formation of corrosion products and secondary phase deposits on corroding/dissolving nuclear fuel surfaces under waste disposal conditions were investigated. SIMFUEL (doped uranium dioxide) has been characterized over the potential range 100–500 mV (vs. SCE). Through the use of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) the surface composition over this potential range has been determined. The presence of silicate was found to have little influence on the oxidation of UO2 to produce the oxidized surface layer U1-2xIVU2xVO2+x<math><mrow is="true"><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">U</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">1</mn><mo is="true">-</mo><mn is="true">2</mn><mi is="true">x</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">IV</mi></mrow></msubsup><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">U</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn><mi is="true">x</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">V</mi></mrow></msubsup><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">O</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn><mo is="true">+</mo><mi is="true">x</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></math>. However, depending on its concentration it could suppress the conversion reaction U1-2xIVU2xVO2+x→UO3·yH2O<math><mrow is="true"><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">U</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">1</mn><mo is="true">-</mo><mn is="true">2</mn><mi is="true">x</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">IV</mi></mrow></msubsup><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">U</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn><mi is="true">x</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">V</mi></mrow></msubsup><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">O</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn><mo is="true">+</mo><mi is="true">x</mi></mrow></msub><mo is="true">→</mo><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">UO</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">3</mn></mrow></msub><mo is="true">·</mo><mi is="true">y</mi><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">H</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn></mrow></msub><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">O</mi></mrow></math> for potentials ⩽250 mV (vs. SCE). This suppression appears due to the adsorption of silicate on the fuel surface. The accumulation of a hydrated UVI silicate on the fuel surface occurs when UVI is formed at higher anodic potentials, leading to a suppression of anodic dissolution. The UO22+<math><mrow is="true"><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">UO</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn><mo is="true">+</mo></mrow></msubsup></mrow></math> formed in, and subsequently transported out of, the acidified sites accumulates on the outer fuel surface as a hydrated UVI silicate.
AbstractZinc–aluminum layered double hydroxides with nitrate intercalated (Zn(n)Al–NO3, n = Zn/Al) is an intermediate material for the intercalation of different functional molecules used in a wide range of industrial applications. The synthesis of Zn(2)Al–NO3 was investigated considering the time and temperature of hydrothermal treatment. By examining the crystallite size in two different directions, hydrodynamic particle size, morphology, crystal structure and chemical species in solution, it was possible to understand the crystallization and dissolution processes involved in the mechanisms of crystallite and particle growth. In addition, hydrogeochemical modeling rendered insights on the speciation of different metal cations in solution. Therefore, this tool can be a promising solution to model and optimize the synthesis of layered double hydroxide-based materials for industrial applications.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (44KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•A new xanthate functionalized PAMAM dendrimer (XFPD) ligand is synthesized.•XFDP effectively form complexes with various heavy metal ions at pH > 4.•XFPD remove metal ions even at high ionic strength.•Loading capacity of XFPD for Eu3+ and Cu2+ metal ions is 0.94 and 0.48 g g−1.•XFPD has potential application in total decontamination of radioactive waste.AbstractXanthate functionalized PAMAM dendrimer (XFPD) chelating ligand, first of its kind, has been synthesized from hydroxyl terminated poly(amido)amine dendrimer. Studies on performance of XFPD in removal of Cu2+ and Eu3+ metal ions were carried out from aqueous solution. Investigation on quantitative removal of Cu2+ and Eu3+ metal ions at various pH revealed that XFPD effectively precipitates the metal ions at pH > 4 with settling time of about 3 h. In case of Cu–XFPD complex at pH > 6, settling requires the addition of coagulating agent like aluminium sulphate. The loading capacity of XFPD for Cu2+ and Eu3+ metal ions was estimated to be 0.48 and 0.95 g g−1, respectively. The XFPD chelating ligand deployed for treatment of radioactive liquid waste (RLW) showed that percentage removal of radionuclides were in the following order; 95Zr ≈ 154Eu ≈ 60Co (>99.8) > 144Ce (98.8) > 125Sb (83.3) > 106Ru (79.4) > 55Mn (54.3) > 137Cs (24.0). It has been demonstrated that XFPD chelating ligand has potential application in effective removal of various radionuclides from aqueous waste.
AbstractNanostructured surface treatment coatings based on the Self-assembled Nanophase Particle (SNAP) approach were investigated as potential replacement for chromate-based surface treatments on aircraft aluminum alloys. In the traditional sol–gel method, hydrolysis-condensation processes are followed by condensation polymerization upon film application. This process sequence provides a low temperature route to the preparation if thin coatings which are readily applied to most metallic substrates. The recent discovery of a method of forming functionalized silica nanoparticles in situ in an aqueous sol–gel process, and then cross-linking the nanoparticles to form a thin film, is an excellent example of a nanoscience approach to coatings. This Self-assembled Nanophase Particle (SNAP) process can be used to form thin, dense protective organic surface treatment coatings on Al aerospace alloys. The ability to design coating components from the molecular level upward offers tremendous potential for creating multifunctional coatings.The important components of Al alloy corrosion inhibition by chromate are storage and release of CrVI species, inhibition of cathodic reactions (primarily oxygen reduction), and inhibition of attack at active sites in the alloy. Unlike chromate-based treatments, current SNAP coatings provide barrier-type corrosion resistance but do not have the ability to leach corrosion inhibitors upon coating damage and minimize corrosion of the unprotected area. In this study, organic inhibitors were tested for corrosion protection of aluminum alloys in combination with the (SNAP). Scanning Vibrating Electrode Technique, anodic polarization, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and salt spray test were used to study this new approach for chromate replacement.
AbstractPhytophthora ramorum is the causal agent of sudden oak death, a very serious disease that causes dieback and death of several important forest species in the USA. It was recently associated with a destructive disease of larch in the United Kingdom. The pathogen has a wide host range including ornamentals such as Rhododendron and Viburnum, and has been recovered from nursery soil samples. Diligent use of effective disinfectants in nurseries can contribute to integrated management strategies for P. ramorum. Nine disinfectants, some at different concentrations and duration, were evaluated in vitro and in vivo for their efficacy in controlling the growth of P. ramorum mycelia and the germination of sporangia. Chemprocide® (1.35%), PerCept™ (diluted 1:16) and 15% bleach treatments were the most consistent in their effectiveness for inhibiting both mycelia growth and sporangia germination. Chemprocide® (1.35%) and 10% bleach treatments were effective also for preventing P. ramorum recovery from contaminated plastic plant saucers and metal surfaces. Isolates representing the three clonal lineages (EU1, NA1, and NA2) of P. ramorum were included in all studies. Interestingly, 10 min treatments of ethanol (70% or 95%) were effective in preventing colony forming unit (CFU) growth, but were not as effective for preventing mycelia growth. Ethanol treatments for 5 min were among the least effective, and in every case was not significantly different from the water-treated controls. Concentration and treatment time were critical factors influencing efficacy in these studies. Differences in CFU production were observed among the clonal lineages with a high of 18 ± 1.19 (n = 66) for EU1 isolates, and a low of 9.0 ± 0.89 (n = 74) for NA2 isolates.Highlights► Chemprocide® (1.35%), PerCept™ (diluted 1:16), and 15% bleach were the most consistent treatments. ► Chemprocide® (1.35%) and 10% bleach treatments were effective for preventing recovery from contaminated surfaces. ► Concentration and treatment time were critical factors influencing efficacy. ► Differences in CFU production were observed among the clonal lineages.
AbstractIn this study, Ni–P–CNT composite coating was successfully deposited on the surface of copper by electroless plating. X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were used to characterize the coatings. The wear behavior of the coatings was investigated using a pin-on-disk test rig and subsequently friction coefficient data were reported. The corrosion behavior of the Ni–P and Ni–P–CNT coated specimen were evaluated through polarization curves and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) in 3.5 wt.% NaCl aqueous solution at the room temperature. The results indicated that the incorporation of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) in the coating improved both tribological behavior and corrosion resistance. These improvements have been attributed to superior mechanical properties, unique topological structure and high chemical stability of nanotubes.Highlights► CNTs lead to an increase in nanocrystalline phase's fraction of Ni-P-CNT coating. ► CNTs increase hardness of both as-deposited and heat treated coatings. ► CNTs significantly improve tribological behavior of composite coating. ► Ni-P-CNT composite coating exhibit better corrosion behavior than Ni-P coating. ► CNTs could accelerate the chemical passivation of the Ni–P–CNT composite coating.
AbstractBioavailability is key to the effectiveness of functional foods. Among functional food components minerals have a key function in their essential role for a healthy life. Deficiencies in essential minerals are seen as a major nutritional problem in the world today. This review investigates the impact of food processing on the bioavailability of minerals. The findings of the last decade clearly show that there is no simple relation between food processing and bioavailability. Processing can have a positive impact through separation or partitioning of minerals (enrichment), or through the destruction of inhibitors or, the beneficial complex formation between food components and metal ions, thereby enhancing their availability. However, the impact can also be negative by deactivating enzymes that degrade inhibitors or by generating insoluble metal compounds (e.g. oxidation, precipitation). Potential for the modulation of bioavailability will arise when the speciation of metal ions and their fate in processing and in the body are better understood.
Highlights•The galvanic corrosion of AA2024/CFRP was simulated by using models based on graphite.•SVET and ZRA were used to estimate the inhibition efficiency of several species in NaCl.•The most effective inhibitor systems found were CelCl3, BTA and BTA + MBT + Tween 80.•SVET depicted a corrosion acceleration induced by CeCl3 at the beginning of immersion.AbstractThe inhibition efficiency of several species on the corrosion of AA2024-T3/graphite galvanic coupling was determined in NaCl electrolyte. Two distinct galvanic coupling models with different anode/cathode area ratios were elaborated making use of a graphite rod or of a graphite foil. SVET was applied in order to directly measure the current densities related to galvanic corrosion processes. Inhibition efficiency rankings were established by calculating the average total currents from SVET data and by the galvanic currents provided by ZRA. The quantitative results together with optical analysis revealed that the most effective inhibitor system is the benzotriazole + 2-mercaptobenzothiazole + Tween-80.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (253KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•An effective degradation of SMT by nZVI/PS process was achieved.•Complete degradation of SMT was obtained in 30 min by nZVI/PS process.•This study provides a novel treatment of SMT-contaminated wastewater.AbstractThis study investigates the effectiveness of the nanoscale zero-valent iron and persulfate (nZVI/PS) process in degrading sulfamethazine (SMT) in aqueous solutions. nZVI was formed using a rotating packed bed with blade packings. The dominant generated free radical in the nZVI/PS process for degrading SMT was SO4−. nZVI can gradually release Fe2+, which subsequently activates PS to form SO4−, increasing the efficiency of degradation of SMT by this process. The effects of the PS/nZVI molar ratio, initial SMT concentration, and species of inorganic anions on the efficiency of degradation of SMT were also studied. A PS/nZVI molar ratio of 1/0.5 in the nZVI/PS process was chosen to reduce the required nZVI dosage at PS concentrations of 0.5, 1, and 2 mmol/L. The efficiency of degradation of SMT declined as the initial SMT concentration was increased. Inorganic anions (SO42−, HCO3−, NO3−, and Cl− ions) at high concentrations inhibited the degradation of SMT and their suppressive effects followed the order SO42− > HCO3− > NO3− > Cl−. The efficiency of degradation of SMT using the formed nZVI significantly exceeded that using commercial nZVI that was purchased from Centron Biochemistry Technology. At an nZVI dosage of 56 mg/L, a PS concentration of 2 mmol/L, and an initial SMT concentration of 10 mg/L, the efficiency of degradation of SMT was 93% after 5 min in the absence of inorganic anions. Therefore, the nZVI/PS process is highly effective in degrading SMT in aqueous solutions.
Highlights•This study proposed a modified concept for the MEG regeneration process.•The precipitation of NaCl was prevented by implementing a two-stage distillation.•The modified concept showed few precipitation under a high TDS of up to 224 g/L.•Economic benefit was 9.8% decrease in CAPEX and 8.6% decrease in OPEX.AbstractThis study proposes a modified concept for mono ethylene glycol (MEG) regeneration process to prevent the precipitation of monovalent salt (NaCl) and to economize on efficient energy use with operational flexibility. Two-stage distillation was that the second distillation column was operated after the removal of the monovalent salt while controlling the performance of the first distillation column. This modified concept was evaluated according to (i) the possibility of salt precipitation in the re-boiler of the column at various salinity in the produced water (35–224 g/L) and (ii) the economic feasibility compared to a conventional concept where water is evaporated off using a single stage distillation column. The salt precipitation was investigated using the ENRTL-RK property in ASPEN PLUS. The conventional concept showed a high risk of NaCl precipitation in the column when the feed stream contains a high salinity. The modified concept showed few precipitation in the column with a high salinity in feed stream. Then, ASPEN PLUS economic analyzer were used to construct the economic evaluation according to the Life Cycle Cost (LCC) methodology including CAPEX and OPEX. The modified concept showed 9.8% decrease in CPAEX and 8.6% decrease in OPEX compared to the conventional concept. The sensitivity analysis showed that the inlet flow rate and the concentration of rich MEG were the most significant factors that affected the economic viability of the MEG regeneration process, and the modified concept was less sensitive to the inlet condition change than the conventional concept.
AbstractA heterocyclic Schiff base furoin thiosemicarbazone was tested for its corrosion inhibition towards mild steel in 1 M HCl solution using weight loss, Tafel polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy techniques. Furoin thiosemicarbazone revealed good corrosion inhibition efficiency even at low concentrations towards mild steel in HCl medium. Comparison of corrosion inhibition efficiency of Schiff base and its parent amine and effect of temperature on inhibition efficiency were also investigated. The adsorption of furoin thiosemicarbazone on mild steel surface obeys Langmuir isotherm.
AbstractBuffering-out is a new liquid–liquid phase separation phenomenon observed in mixtures containing a buffer as a mass separating agent. The (liquid + liquid) equilibrium (LLE) and (solid + liquid + liquid) equilibrium (SLLE) data were measured for the ternary systems {3-[4-(2-hydroxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl]propanesulfonic acid (EPPS) buffer + 1-propanol, 2-propanol, or 2-methyl-2-propanol + water} at T = 298.15 K under atmospheric pressure. The phase boundary data were fitted to an empirical equation relating to the concentrations of organic solvent and buffer. The effective excluded volume (EEV) values of EPPS were obtained from the phase boundary data. The phase-separation abilities of the investigated aliphatic alcohols were discussed. The reliability of the experimental tie-lines was satisfactorily confirmed by the Othmer–Tobias correlation. The experimental tie-lines data for the ternary systems have been correlated using the NRTL activity coefficient model. The separation of these aliphatic alcohols from their azeotropic aqueous mixtures is of particular interest to industrial process. The addition of the EPPS as an auxiliary agent breaks the (1-propanol + water) and (2-methyl-2-propanol + water) azeotropes. The possibility of using the new phase separation systems in the extraction process is demonstrated by using different dyestuffs.Graphical abstractDownload full-size imageHighlights► Buffering-out is a new liquid–liquid phase separation containing biological buffer. ► EPPS buffer-induced phase separation of aqueous solutions of aliphatic alcohols. ► Phase diagrams of EPPS + water + 1-propanol/2-propanol/2-methyl-2-propanol are studied. ► EPPS breaks the 1-propanol + water and 2-methyl-2-propanol + water azeotropes. ► The (liquid + liquid) equilibria can be well correlated by the NRTL model.
AbstractDehalogenation of chlorinated aliphatic contaminants at the surface of zero-valent iron metal (Fe0) is mediated by the thin film of iron (hydr)oxides found on Fe0 under environmental conditions. To evaluate the role this oxide film plays in the reduction of chlorinated methanes, carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) degradation by Fe0 was studied under the influence of various anions, ligands, and initial CCl4 concentrations ([P]o). Over the range of conditions examined in these batch experiments, the reaction kinetics could be characterized by surface-area-normalized rate constants that were pseudo-first order for CCl4 disappearance (kCCl4), and zero order for the appearance of dissolved Fe2+ (kFe2+). The rate of dechlorination exhibits saturation kinetics with respect to [P]o, suggesting that CCl4 is transformed at a limited number of reactive surface sites. Because oxidation of Fe0 by CCl4 is the major corrosion reaction in these systems, kFe2+ also approaches a limiting value at high CCl4 concentrations. The adsorption of borate strongly inhibited reduction of CCl4, but a concomitant addition of chloride partially offset this effect by destabilizing the film. Redox active ligands (catechol and ascorbate), and those that are not redox active (EDTA and acetate), all decreased kCCl4 (and kFe2+). Thus, it appears that the relatively strong complexation of these ligands at the oxide–electrolyte interface blocks the sites where weak interactions with the metal oxide lead to dehalogenation of chlorinated aliphatic compounds.
Highlights•Scrap tires can be hydrothermally converted to high quality liquid fuel.•T (°C) was the most influential factor affecting the quality of the liquid products.•The liquid products mainly consists of unsaturated hydrocarbon and aromatics.•60 wt.% of the chemical energy in the ST was retained in the liquid products.AbstractThe hydrothermal liquefaction of scrap tires (ST) using a stainless-steel batch reactor is examined in this study. The effects of reaction temperature (from 200 to 430 °C), corresponding pressure (from 0 to 28 MPa), time (from 20 to 120 min), H2O/ST mass ratio (from 0/3 to 12/3), and atmosphere (air, CO2, CO, H2, and N2) on the yields of product fractions (liquid products, gas, and char) and the properties of the liquid products were examined. Of the variables examined, temperature was the most influential factor affecting the yield and quality of the liquid products. Under optimal conditions, the highest liquid product yield of 52.73 wt.% was achieved. Thermal decomposition of the ST begins at approximately 120 °C and finishes at approximately 500 °C. The addition of water made the complete conversion of ST milder than that its direct pyrolysis (without water). During hydrothermal liquefaction, water was partly incorporated into the liquid products. The liquid products, which are highly viscous at room temperature and flow with difficulty, had higher heating values of approximately 44.20–45.09 MJ/kg. The liquid products mainly consisted of unsaturated hydrocarbons and aromatics, and approximately 60 wt.% of the chemical energy in the ST was retained in the liquid products in these conditions. The gaseous products were mainly CO2, H2, and CH4. This study suggests that ST can be hydrothermally converted into a high quality liquid fuel.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (65KB)Download full-size image
AbstractIn this commentary, we take a critical look at the concept that the gastrointestinal (GI) side-effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are due to the ability of these drugs to inhibit cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) that is constitutively expressed in the GI mucosa. Indeed, development of the new “super aspirins,” such as Celebrex and Vioxx, that selectively inhibit the inducible COX-2, expressed in areas of inflammation, is a direct outgrowth of this concept. We discuss evidence from both the laboratory and the clinic that appears to be inconsistent with the above concept, and cite a number of examples where the depletion of mucosal prostaglandin levels and the development of GI injury can be dissociated. Instead, we revisit the possibility that NSAID-induced GI side-effects are mostly due to the ability of these drugs to topically injure the GI mucosa. We devote the remainder of the commentary to presenting evidence from our and other laboratories that NSAIDs can directly attenuate the surface hydrophobic barrier of the GI mucosa due to their ability to bind to zwitterionic phospholipids, and that even systemically administered NSAIDs that are secreted into the bile may induce GI ulceration and/or bleeding due to phospholipid interactions and the development of topical mucosal injury.
AbstractFormation, presence and deposition of corrosion product radionuclides (such as 60Co, 51Cr, 54Mn, 59Fe and/or 110mAg) in the primary circuits of water-cooled nuclear reactors (PWRs) throw many obstacles in the way of normal operation. During the course of the work presented in this series, accumulations of such radionuclides have been studied at austenitic stainless steel type 08X18H10T (GOST 5632-61) surfaces (this austenitic stainless steel corresponds to AISI 321). Comparative experiments have been performed on magnetite-covered carbon steel (both materials are frequently used in some Soviet VVER type PWRs). For these laboratory-scale investigations a combination of the in situ radiotracer `thin gap' method and voltammetry is considered to be a powerful tool due to its high sensitivity towards the detection of the submonolayer coverages of corrosion product radionuclides. An independent technique (XPS) is also used to characterize the depth distribution and chemical state of various contaminants in the passive layer formed on austenitic stainless steel. In the first part of the series the accumulation of 110mAg has been investigated. Potential dependent sorption of Ag+ ions (cementation) is found to be the predominant process on austenitic steel, while in the case of magnetite-covered carbon steel the silver species are mainly depleted in the form of Ag2O. The XPS depth profile of Ag gives an evidence about the embedding of metallic silver into the entire passive layer of the austenitic stainless steel studied.
AbstractChloride-induced corrosion of carbon steel reinforcement is the most important cause of premature failure on reinforced concrete structures. Among available methods, corrosion inhibitors offer a simple and cost effective prevention technique, primarily to prevent and stop chloride-induced corrosion. Nevertheless, performance of commercial inhibitors is only partially satisfactory. This paper deals with a basic study on the inhibitive action of organic substances toward chloride-induced corrosion on carbon steel rebar in alkaline environment. The effect of aminic and carboxylic groups was investigated through electrochemical potentiodynamic polarisation tests in simulating concrete pore solution in the presence of chlorides, to ascertain inhibitor effectiveness to increase pitting potential. Results are discussed taking into account the most likely mechanism of inhibition, in relation to the functional group of tested organic compounds.
Highlights•Cu(II), Ni(II), Co(III) complexes of 2-furylmethylamine Schiff base were synthesized.•Structure of compounds determined by single crystal X-ray diffraction.•Complexes show good binding interactions with CT-DNA via intercalative binding mode.•DNA photo and oxidative cleavage via formation of ROS and OH radical mechanism.•Compounds were active towards antioxidant and antibacterial activity.AbstractThree novel binary metal complexes; 1 [Cu(L)2], 2 [Ni(L)2] and 3 [Co(L)3] where, L (2-(((furan-2-yl) methylimino)methyl)-6-ethoxyphenol, C14H15NO3), were synthesized and characterized by various spectral techniques. Based on spectral studies square planar geometry is assigned for Cu(II) and Ni(II) complexes, whereas Co(III) owned octahedral geometry. Ligand, [Cu(L)2] and [Ni(L)2] are crystallized and found to be monoclinic crystal systems. CT-DNA absorption binding studies revealed that the complexes show good binding propensity (Kb = 5.02 × 103 M−1, 2.77 × 103 M−1, 1.63 × 104 M−1 for 1, 2 and 3 respectively). The role of these complexes in the oxidative and photolytic cleavage of supercoiled pBR322 DNA was studied and found that the complexes cleave the pBR322 DNA effectively. The catalytic ability of 1, 2 and 3 follows the order: 3 > 1 > 2. Antioxidant studies of the new complexes revealed that they exhibit significant antioxidant activity against DPPH radical. The Schiff base and its metal complexes have been screened for antibacterial studies by Minimum Inhibitory Concentration method. It is observed that all metal complexes showed more activity than free ligand.
AbstractZnFe2O4 nanoparticles (ZFNPs) were developed as catalyst for the degradation of benzotriazole (BTA) by heterogeneous photoelectron-Fenton (PE-Fenton) like process. ZFNPs were prepared by a co-precipitation process and then characterized with transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray fluorescence (XRF), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and BET surface area. Using such ZFNPs as catalyst, the degradation of BTA was investigated. Due to the high catalytic activity of ZFNPs, PE-Fenton like process showed efficient degradation of BTA. The influencing factors such as pH, dosage of ZFNPs, applied potential and initial concentration of BTA were systematically investigated. Under the optimum conditions, 91.2% of BTA was removed after 180 min treatment.
Highlights•(2-aminobenzyl) triphenylphosphonium bromide was used as corrosion inhibitor.•The results confirmed that ABTPPB acted as a potent corrosion inhibitor for mild steel.•ABTPPB adsorption obeyed the Langmuir adsorption isotherm.•ABTPPB acted as mixed type corrosion inhibitors.•SEM-EDX and AFM analyses indicate the formation of protective layers.AbstractThe inhibition efficiency (IEinh %) of the (2-aminobenzyl)triphenylphosphonium bromide (ABTPPB) environmental friendly inhibitor on mild steel (MS) corrosion in 0.5 M H2SO4 solution at concentrations (10−5 to 10−2 M) and temperatures (298 to 328 K) have been achieved using potentiostatic polarization (PP), galvanostatic polarization (GP), electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), and surface characterized via the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) with energy dispersive x-ray (EDX) spectroscopy, and atomic force microscopy (AFM). The results confirmed that ABTPPB was a potent inhibitor for MS in corrosive medium with the IEinh (%) adequate to 99% in 10−2 M. EIS outcomes revealed the enlarged capacitive loop in the attendance of mitigator in comparison to that of the merely acid specifies a high degree of mitigation efficiency. The definite correlation between the experimental results and isotherm utility was achieved using Langmuir Adsorption (LA) isotherm, and the inhibitor is being chemisorbed predominantly on the MS surface. Both SEM-EDX and AFM analyses sustained the formation of protective layers of the ABTPPB molecules on the sample surface. Quantum chemical (QC) calculations were employed for computational calculations, and the acquired results were instigated to be reliable with the experimental findings.
Highlights•Pre-treated pine sawdust was simultaneously converted to levulinic acid and furfural.•Levulinic acid and furfural yields 38% and 85% of the theoretical values were achieved.•Pre-treatment method enhanced the levulinic acid yield.•Microwave irradiation as the heating method ensured short conversion reaction times.•Low H2SO4 concentration (90 mmol L-1) was used in the conversion reactions.AbstractIn this work pine sawdust was converted into levulinic acid (LA) and furfural. Sawdust was first pre-treated with sulfuric acid-catalysed mechanical depolymerization. The conversion reactions were then performed with microwave heating at 180 °C. To enhance the furfural yield and the efficient separation of furfural and LA, a biphasic water-toluene reaction system was used. The effect of an additional catalyst, AlCl3, on the yield of LA and furfural was also studied. According to the results the pre-treatment method enhanced the yields of LA. In addition, due to the microwave heating the reaction times were short. Additional AlCl3 catalyst enhanced the LA yield, however excellent furfural yields were achieved even without it. Best LA yield (38%) was achieved with 6 h of milling combined with 30 min of microwave heating while the best furfural yield (85%) was achieved with 4 h of milling and 20 min of microwave heating.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (168KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe combination of the electrical conducting properties of polyaniline (Pani) with the mechanical performance of polyurethanes (PU) was accomplished through the interconnection of the two polymers via condensation of a NCO terminated PU prepolymer and the amine groups of polyaniline. The crosslinking density of the resulting networks was set by the proportion between the two components, since the PU length was kept constant (Mw=40,000, Mn=23,000). The composition range Pani/PU spanned from 1 to 30%. Blends of the same composition were prepared for comparison purposes. Taking into account the IR absorption shifts, DMTA spectra, electrical conductivity results and computer generated optimized chain conformation, a morphological interpretation is proposed in which Pani chains form a continuous percolating phase dispersed in a polyurethane matrix, linked together by an interphase, with a certain degree of miscibility. This interphase would be responsible for the connectivity between the two components and the good mechanical properties observed. Electrical conductivity of the networks was in the 10−4 S/cm range.
Highlights•A protocol was developed to simulate microbiological corrosion during fuel storage.•Acid-producing bacteria induce vapor phase corrosion of copper and steel.•Extensive localized corrosion was observed on copper and carbon steel coupons.•Corrosion product analysis revealed similarity to abiotic acetic acid corrosion.•Acetobacter sp. may inhibit aqueous corrosion of steel during immersion.AbstractWe simulate corrosion observed in underground fuel storage tank systems by headspace and aqueous exposure to biotic organic acid. Carbon steel and copper were exposed to Acetobacter sp. inoculated into aqueous-ethanol solutions over a period of approximately 30 days. The steel alloy exhibited pitting corrosion and the copper alloy exhibited pitting and intergranular corrosion due to acetic acid produced by the microbes. Corrosion rates were dependent on formation of corrosion products and are ranked as follows in order of increasing magnitude: Copper-aqueous < Steel-aqueous < Copper-headspace < Steel-headspace. The laboratory test method developed here reproduces corrosion observed in practice.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (212KB)Download full-size image
Publisher SummaryThis chapter discusses the biological activity of carbonyl difluoride (COF2). Carbonyl difluoride has a lower toxicological activity than phosgene owing to the greater stability of the C–F bond relative to C–Cl. The effects of carbonyl difluoride on the respiratory system are discussed in the chapter. It also presents numerous reports of toxic effects caused by the thermal decomposition of poly(tetrafluoroethene), PTFE. The chapter presents the analytical methods for the determination of carbonyl difluoride. Carbonyl difluoride is not manufactured on any sort of large scale so that direct industrial emissions of the gas need not be considered as far as the environmental issues are concerned. COF2 has a potential industrial utility as a fluorinating agent under conditions where the cheaper and abundantly available hydrogen fluoride is ineffective. Hydrogen fluoride is the most common, accessible, and active fluorinating agent and its interaction with phosgene is known to generate carbonyl difluoride. Thermodynamic and physical properties of COF2 are discussed in the chapter. At room temperature and atmospheric pressure, carbonyl difluoride is a colorless gas that is condensable to give a colorless liquid. The mass spectrum (electron energy not specified) of COF2 has been recorded via an unreactive Kel–F inlet system .
AbstractThe coking wastewater was pretreated by acid out, micro-electrolysis process with in situ electrochemical peroxidation (ECP) (approximately 0.013–0.015 M H2O2) reaction to reduce the subsequent processing load. The results showed that the acidification process brought about changes not only in organic species of contaminants but also in decrease of COD, NH3N in wastewater through precipitation and some special reactions, resulting in 33% of COD and 9.7% of NH3N removal. Then Fe/C micro-electrolysis (ME) with in situ ECP reaction exhibited a stronger ability to remove the COD and NH3N than that with ex situ Fenton reaction, because at this stage, for the two reaction models, the total COD and NH3N removal were 65%, 26% and 43%, 25% in sequence, but in view of the contribution of only Fenton reaction to the whole COD and NH3N removal, they were 26%, 4.2% (the former was about six times as strong as the latter) and 9.3%, 8.1%, respectively. So it was reasonable to deduce that there was a prominent synergistic effect on COD removal between the dynamic Fe/C micro-electrolysis and the Fenton reaction; furthermore, the Fenton reaction in in situ ECP process was not only high-efficient but also low-cost. These advantages might mainly be attributed to the technique of dynamic Fe/C ME with in situ ECP reaction, as it was presumed that the technique might promote some favorable reactions involved, but inhibit those unfavorable ones. The major degradation mechanism of organic contaminants in effluent had been proposed.Highlights► Acidification brought about precipitation and induced special chemical reactions. ► The COD removal was 65% in micro-electrolysis with in situ ECP. ► A synergistic effect between micro-electrolysis and Fenton reaction was revealed.
AbstractThe better knowledge of the mechanisms of nuclear incidents and lessons learned from accidents in the recent past to improve the effectiveness of measures taken following a nuclear accident exposure to fallout of radioactive iodine isotopes. Thus, immediate, passive measures, such as containment, and stopping consumption of contaminated products are paramount. The earliest possible administration of stable iodine as potassium iodide (KI) reduces significantly (up to 90% if taken at the same time of the accident) thyroid radioactive contamination. These tablets should be given in priority to children and pregnant women. The side effects are minor. KI is not recommended for persons aged over 60 years, or for adults suffering from cardiovascular disorders.RésuméLa meilleure connaissance des mécanismes des incidents nucléaires et les leçons tirées des accidents survenus dans le passé récent améliorent l’efficacité des mesures prises suite à un accident nucléaire exposant à des retombées d’isotopes radioactifs de l’iode. Ainsi, des mesures immédiates, passives telles que le confinement, tout comme l’arrêt de la consommation de produits contaminés sont primordiales. L’administration la plus précoce possible d’iode stable sous la forme d’iodure de potassium (KI) permet de réduire de façon significative (jusqu’à 90 % en cas de prise au moment même de l’accident) la contamination thyroïdienne radioactive. Cette mesure s’adresse en priorité aux enfants et aux femmes enceintes. Elle s’accompagne de très peu d’effets secondaires, surtout si l’on respecte les rares contre-indications. Elle pourrait être inutile chez l’adulte, voire déconseillée après soixante ans et chez l’adulte aux antécédents de pathologie cardiovasculaire.
AbstractThe electrochemical behaviour of iron in pH 6 aqueous solutions of benzoate and acetate anions mixed in varying concentrations and constant ionic strength was investigated. For that purpose cyclic voltammetric experiments were carried out at a disc electrode either static and/or rotating. A high surface coverage is observed in the presence of benzoate anions, thus favouring the establishment of a passive state. The overall process is discussed in terms of a three-dimensional film, the growth mechanism of which is under diffusion and migration control. It was also observed that the addition of chloride ions to the mixed electrolyte solutions containing increasing benzoate concentration shifts the breakdown potential and the repassivation potential toward more positive values.
Highlights•Preparation of azo phenols•Molecular and electronic structures of the azo phenols•Molecular docking predicted the binding between the azo phenols and the receptor of prostate and breast cancer.•Potentiometric studies of the azo phenolsAbstractThe ligands 5-amino-2-(phenyldiazenyl)phenol and its derivatives (HLn) were synthesized from the coupling of 3-aminophenol with aniline and its p-derivatives and characterized by different spectroscopic techniques. The molecular and electronic structures of the investigated compounds (HLn) were also studied using quantum chemical calculations. Molecular docking was used to predict the binding between azo compounds with the receptor of prostate cancer 2q7k-Hormone and 3hb5-oxidoreductase receptor of breast cancer. The proton–ligand dissociation constant of the azo compounds (HLn) and metal–ligand stability constants of their complexes with metal ions (Mn2 +, Co2 +, Ni2 + and Cu2 +) have been determined by potentiometric technique in 0.1 M KCl and 40% (by volume) DMF–water mixture. For the same ligand at constant temperature, the stability constants of the formed complexes increase in the order Mn2 +, Co2 +, Ni2 + and Cu2 +. The effect of temperature was studied at 303, 313 and 323 K and the corresponding thermodynamic parameters (∆G, ∆H and ∆S) were derived and discussed. The dissociation process is non-spontaneous, endothermic and entropic ally unfavorable. The formation of the metal complexes has been found to be spontaneous, endothermic and entropic ally favorable.
Highlights•Doping La2O3 nanoparticles improved the corrosion resistance of SAMs in 0.2 M NaCl.•The compactness of silane film was enhanced by doping La2O3 nanoparticles.•La2O3 nanoparticles changed to be La compounds which covered on the cathode site.•PropS-SH/La2O3 composite film offered better long time protection to brass.AbstractSelf-assembled monolayers (SAMs) of 3-mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane (PropS-SH) modified with La2O3 nanoparticles were investigated to evaluate the doping effect of La2O3 nanoparticles on PropS-SH silane film towards brass corrosion protection in NaCl solution. The results indicated that SAMs of PropS-SH modified with La2O3 nanoparticles presented improved barrier properties because La2O3 nanoparticles filled the holes of silane film, which in turn improved the density of silane film, thus enhanced the barrier properties of silane-metal interface. Further, part of La2O3 nanoparticles was transformed to lanthanum oxide hydroxide (LaOOH) by hydrolysis reaction, and the formed La compounds covered the cathode sites, giving rise to a blocking effect.
AbstractThis paper attempts to predict and discuss some of the many challenges facing fundamental research in tribology over the first half of the new century. This is done in two stages, looking at likely developments over the first twelve years based on extrapolation of existing trends, and then, more speculatively, considering possible driving forces over subsequent decades.
AbstractIn this work some of the key issues which affect the performance of catalysts for the anode and cathode electrodes in Direct Methanol Fuel Cells are analyzed. To deal with present challenges and overcome limitations different approaches have been implemented, which include catalyst support diversification and functionalization, control of particle size and the introduction of Pt alloying and heat treatment in order to enhance the rate of critical reactions such as CO electroxidation and oxygen reduction reaction and also reduce Pt loading. A catalyst design strategy has been devised which incorporates the mentioned approaches in order to tackle various critical aspects for both electroactivity and stability, considered essential to boost Direct Methanol Fuel Cells technology.
AbstractNitrogen-heterocyclic compounds (NHCs) are toxic and bio-refractory contaminants widely spread in environment. This study investigated electrochemical degradation of NHCs at boron-doped diamond (BDD) anode with particular attention to the effect of different number and position of nitrogen atoms in molecular structure. Five classical NHCs with similar structures including indole (ID), quinoline (QL), isoquinoline (IQL), benzotriazole (BT) and benzimidazole (BM) were selected as the target compounds. Results of bulk electrolysis showed that degradation of all NHCs was fit to a pseudo first-order equation. The five compounds were degraded with the following sequence: ID > QL > IQL > BT > BM in terms of their rates of oxidation. Quantum chemical calculation was combined with experimental results to describe the degradation character of NHCs at BDD anode. A linear relationship between degradation rate and delocalization energy was observed, which demonstrated that electronic charge was redistributed through the conjugation system and accumulated at the active sites under the attack of hydroxyl radicals produced at BDD anode. Moreover, atom charge was calculated by semi empirical PM3 method and active sites of NHCs were identified respectively. Analysis of intermediates by GC–MS showed agreement with calculation results.Highlights► Nitrogen-heterocyclic compounds were selected as target compounds to be removed. ► Electrochemical oxidation at boron-doped diamond anode was an effective method. ► A liner relationship between delocalization energy and degradation rate was found. ► Active sites were identified by quantum calculation and verified by experiment.
Highlights•Persulfate generation with low sulfate concentration and weak acidity is optimized.•Generated persulfate could be effectively activated in Cathode/Fe3+ system.•4-Bromophenol could be effectively eliminated by persulfate generated in situ.•Preparation and the use of generated persulfate are in the same electrolysis device.AbstractAdding additional persulfate is a common way in sulfate radical-based advanced oxidation processes. The present study provides an alternative which is in situ preparation of persulfate from sulfate-containing solution to deal with wastewaters, avoiding the separation, purification and transportation of persulfate. The electrochemical synthesis of persulfate in mild conditions (low sulfate concentration and weak acidity) was realized in anode chamber and the performance of prepared persulfate was tested using 4-bromophenol as representative pollutant in Cathode/Fe3+ system. The increase of SO42− concentration and anode current density improve persulfate production, but the utilization efficiency of SO42− increases more and more slowly and the current efficiency doesn’t increase above 0.4 A/cm2. The additive of SCN− significantly improves persulfate generation, while this additive and possible by-product has no significant effect on the 4-bromophenol degradation in Cathode/Fe3+ system. With initial (NH4)2SO4 concentration of 0.30 M, initial pH of 5.6 and NH4SCN dosage of 2.6 mM, the in situ generated persulfate can totally remove 0.50 mM 4-bromophenol and more than half of TOC in Cathode/Fe3+ system with Fe3+ dosage of 2.0 mM. The increase of Fe3+ dosage, current density and initial SO42− concentration favor organics removal. A high initial organics concentration is beneficial to the persulfate utilization.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (110KB)Download full-size image
AbstractIn this study, a reduced graphene oxide/silver phosphate (RGO/Ag3PO4) was obtained via polydopamine (PDA) modification, and the PDA/RGO/Ag3PO4 composite was coated on the pure polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membrane, which named PDA/RGO/Ag3PO4/PVDF memebrane. The PDA/RGO/Ag3PO4 was characterized by Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR), X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Futhermore, the SEM, Energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS) spectrograms and Atomic force microscopy (AFM) were used to characterize the morphology structure, elemental mapping and roughness of PDA/RGO/Ag3PO4/PVDF memebrane. The results showed that the composite membrane has a good effect on the degradation of dyes, and the rejection rate of MB reached 99% with an increasing of the composite material ratio. The hydrophilicity of the membrane surface increased by measuring the contact angle, with decrease to 59.2°compared with 88.2°of pure PVDF membrane. In addition, under the visible light irrradiation, the coated membrane still keeps stable flux and high separation efficiency after 5 cycles. Hence, this study provides an attractive PVDF modified membrane.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (172KB)Download full-size image
AbstractTitanium (Ti) has been widely used as an implant material due to the excellent biocompatibility and corrosion resistance of its oxide surface. Biomaterials must be sterile before implantation, but the effects of sterilization on their surface properties have been less well studied. The effects of cleaning and sterilization on surface characteristics were bio-determined using contaminated and pure Ti substrata first manufactured to present two different surface structures: pretreated titanium (PT, Ra = 0.4 μm) (i.e. surfaces that were not modified by sandblasting and/or acid etching); (SLA, Ra = 3.4 μm). Previously cultured cells and associated extracellular matrix were removed from all bio-contaminated specimens by cleaning in a sonicator bath with a sequential acetone–isopropanol–ethanol–distilled water protocol. Cleaned specimens were sterilized with autoclave, gamma irradiation, oxygen plasma, or ultraviolet light. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), contact angle measurements, profilometry, and scanning electron microscopy were used to examine surface chemical components, hydrophilicity, roughness, and morphology, respectively. Small organic molecules present on contaminated Ti surfaces were removed with cleaning. XPS analysis confirmed that surface chemistry was altered by both cleaning and sterilization. Cleaning and sterilization affected hydrophobicity and roughness. These modified surface properties affected osteogenic differentiation of human MG63 osteoblast-like cells. Specifically, autoclaved SLA surfaces lost the characteristic increase in osteoblast differentiation seen on starting SLA surfaces, which was correlated with altered surface wettability and roughness. These data indicated that recleaned and resterilized Ti implant surfaces cannot be considered the same as the first surfaces in terms of surface properties and cell responses. Therefore, the reuse of Ti implants after resterilization may not result in the same tissue responses as found with never-before-implanted specimens.
AbstractA novel approach is proposed for constructing the adsorption isotherm in corrosion studies, based on a well-known interaction between citric acid and aluminium in alkaline electrolytes. Our approach utilizes the instantaneous impedance measurements via Dynamic Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy in galvanostatic mode (g-DEIS). Unlike other common tools, g-DEIS delivers exact information about the concentration required for full surface coverage with adsorbed inhibitor. A significantly larger data set enables observation of multi-stage mechanism of adsorption and complex interaction between citric acid and the metal surface. The obtained impedance results displayed a high convergence with other electrochemical, XPS and SEM studies carried out for verification purposes.It was shown that citric acid exhibits critical concentration with respect to the inhibition efficiency. Chemistry of the adsorbed layer was altered and secondary increase in the corrosion rate was observed in the excess of citric acid, a feature typical for surfactants. Furthermore, authors compared different aluminium alloys with respect to their corrosion resistance mediated by citric acid. The conclusion was reached that regardless of corrosion resistance, the kinetics and mechanism of passive layer formation in Al alloys depends only slightly on alloying additives. AA7020 alloy was an exception because of a specific interaction between zinc and citric acid.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (192KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•LDH-MBT (2D) and NaY-Ce (3D) inhibitor-carrier particles were used.•Inhibition synergy between a 2D and a 3D inhibitor-loaded carrier is demonstrated.•Release kinetics from carriers are studied for a range of pH and NaCl concentrations.•Inhibition in coatings depends on the ratio of 2D:3D particles used.•For the studied system a 90:10 ratio (2D:3D) leads to the best inhibition efficiency.AbstractIn the current paper the corrosion inhibition synergy between Ce3+ loaded NaY-zeolite (NaY-Ce) and 2-Mercaptobenzothiazole (MBT) loaded Zn-Al layered double hydroxide (LDH-MBT) containers is presented. Solutions and water-borne epoxy coatings containing different ratios of the two loaded carriers were prepared and their protection of AA2024-T3 and damaged coatings characterized using global and local electrochemical techniques and other complementary tools. The coatings containing container-combinations showed exceptional corrosion protection over a broad range of NaY-Ce:LDH-MBT weight ratios, with 90:10 being the optimal. The current work landmarks the need for synergetic inhibiting studies devoted to carrier-inhibitor systems in coatings.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (213KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe degradation problem of petroleum products arises since hydrocarbon acts as an excellent food source for a wide variety of microorganisms. Microbial activity leads to unacceptable level of turbidity, corrosion of pipeline and souring of stored product. The present study emphasizes the role of Bacillus cereus ACE4 on degradation of diesel and its influence on corrosion of API 5LX steel. A demonstrating bacterial strain ACE4 was isolated from corrosion products and 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis showed that it has more than 99% similarity with B. cereus. The biodegradation and corrosion studies revealed that B. cereus degraded the aliphatic protons and aromatic protons in diesel and is capable of oxidizing ferrous/manganese into oxides. This is the first report that discloses the involvement of manganese oxidizer B. cereus ACE4 on biodegradation of diesel and its influence on corrosion in a tropical country pipeline.
AbstractThis paper investigates the solid particle erosion–corrosion performance of an experimental high velocity oxy-fuel (HVOF) sprayed nickel–aluminium bronze (NAB) coating using conventional gravimetric techniques as well as in situ electrochemical analysis. The coating consists of HVOF powders from three alloys: stainless steel alloy, nickel-based alloy and aluminium bronze alloy. It is a candidate coating for marine applications as a cost effective replacement of existing castings and to improve component life. The coating was subjected to pure erosion, flow corrosion and erosion–corrosion tests. A jet impingement slurry erosion rig was used to carry out the experiments; the effects of jet velocity were investigated. By gravimetric analysis the degree of synergy was evaluated and a constant was revealed which described to what extent the presence of corrosion products/films reduces the erosivity and promotes negative synergy. Likewise, standard deviations of electrochemical current measurements are shown to reveal the presence of protective film formation under flow corrosion and film breakdown under erosion–corrosion conditions. Separation of the erosion-enhanced corrosion component revealed that at high erodent kinetic energies, erosion-enhanced corrosion dominates and generates a positive synergy. At lower energies, this coating system forms a protective film which reduces the contact conditions on impingement and a negative synergy results. Overall, correlations between the mass loss and electrochemical measurements have been established and were used to identify and quantify synergy.
AbstractA novel volatile corrosion inhibitor (VCI), bis-piperidiniummethyl-urea (BPMU), was developed for temporary protection of carbon steel. Its vapor corrosion inhibition property was evaluated under simulated operational conditions. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy was applied to study the inhibition effect of BPMU on the corrosion of carbon steel with a thin stimulated atmospheric corrosion water layers. Adsorption of BPMU on carbon steel surfaces was investigated by atomic force microscopy (AFM) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The results indicate that BPMU can form a protective film on the metal surface, which protects the metal against further corrosion. The structure of the protective film was suggested as one BPMU molecule chelated with one Fe atom to form a complex with two hexa-rings.
Highlights•Stearate, palmitate and myristate as efficient inhibitors for ZE41 alloy corrosion.•The carboxylates act as mixed-type inhibitors with predominant anodic action.•The inhibition is through the adsorption and densification of porous surface film.•The predominant physisorption of carboxylates obeys Langmuir adsorption isotherm.AbstractLong chain alkyl carboxylates like stearate, palmitate and myristate were investigated for their efficiency in inhibiting the corrosion of magnesium alloy ZE41 in an aqueous salt medium containing 0.2 M Na2SO4 and 0.1 M NaCl. The techniques like potentiodynamic polarization and EIS, along with SEM and EDX analyses were employed. The inhibition was proposed to be the result of adsorption of alkyl carboxylates, which was found to obey the Langmuir adsorption isotherm. The inhibition was assumed to be the outcome of the formation of a compact modified surface film due to the precipitation of adsorbed alkyl carboxylates of magnesium.
AbstractCorrosion-induced copper runoff has been monitored for copper sheet, naturally patinated copper and pre-patinated copper, with and without surface treatments, in a marine environment during one year. The study comprises solution measurements on total copper runoff rates, sulphates and chlorides released from the patina, and parallel surface analytical studies on patina formation, combined with electrochemical impedance measurements on changes in barrier properties during exposure. Bioassay tests and model predictions were applied to elucidate copper bioavailability at the immediate release situation. The runoff rate of copper was significantly lower compared to the corrosion rate throughout the exposure period. At comparable rain quantities, copper runoff rates were significantly lower at the marine site compared to similar data obtained in an urban environment. The bioavailable concentration of released copper was significantly lower compared to the total copper concentration.
AbstractPb-based solders have been the cornerstone technology of electronic interconnections for many decades. However, with legislation in the European Union and elsewhere having moved to restrict the use of Pb, it is imperative that new Pb-free solders are developed which can meet the long established benchmarks set by leaded solders and improve on the current generation of Pb free solders such as SAC105 and SAC305. Although this poses a great challenge to researchers around the world, significant progress is being made in developing new solder alloys with promising properties. In this review, we discuss fundamental research activity and its focus on the solidification and interfacial reactions of Sn-based solder systems. We first explain the reactions between common base materials, coatings, and metallisations, and then proceed to more complex systems with additional alloying elements. We also discuss the continued improvement of substrate resistance to attack from molten Sn which will help maintain the interface stability of interconnections. Finally, we discuss the various studies which have looked at employing nanoparticles as solder additives, and the future prospects of this field.
AbstractGeneral considerations concerning pigment grade corrosion inhibitors are presented and new characteristic functional parameters proposed. The chemistry, contemporarily practiced for corrosion inhibitor pigment synthesis, as well as known mechanistic considerations relevant to the corrosion inhibitor species available in pigment grades, are reviewed. Inherent limits of chemistry are outlined regarding the feasibility of developing equally effective and versatile non-toxic alternatives for chromates.Fundamental aspects of corrosion inhibitor pigment behavior are discussed in the context of organic coatings degradation mechanisms. Disclosed experimental data demonstrate that correlation exists between solubility of corrosion inhibitor pigments, leaching from, and osmotic blistering of organic coatings. A mathematical expression is proposed and empirically proven to adequately describe the leaching rate of corrosion inhibitor pigments from organic coatings.The barrier function of some high performance organic coatings, such as aircraft or coil, is negligible and requires the contribution of an effective corrosion inhibitor pigment, which, typically, is strontium chromate. In this context, the feasibility of replacing chromate inhibitor pigments is assessed and the “gap” observable between the inhibitor performance of chromates and traditional non-chromate pigments is noted.Experimental data are displayed regarding the corrosion inhibitor performance of a novel, organic–inorganic, hybrid type corrosion inhibitor pigment in typical aircraft primer application on aluminum and plated steel. The presented data demonstrate the feasibility of chromate replacement in this specific case.
Highlights•2–30 v/v% MEG has no influence on the absorption flux of HgCl2 into water.•The HgCl2 absorption is controlled by the gas film resistance.•Absorption of HgCl2 in MEG is affected by temperature and HgCl2 gas concentration.•No interactions between HgCl2 and MEG were detected in this work.AbstractDifferent mercury species have been found in the oil and gas reservoirs. Dynamic absorption of mercury (II) chloride (HgCl2) into solutions of mono-ethylene glycol (MEG) is reported in this work. It was observed that absorption of HgCl2 into MEG solutions was comparable to the absorption in pure water and the effect on MEG was not seen for MEG concentrations of 2–30 v/v%. The absorption flux was mainly affected by the absorption temperature and the concentration of HgCl2 in the gas phase. Utilisation of several mercury analysis techniques such as flow injection mercury spectroscopy (FIMS), inductively couple plasma-mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS), Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and Raman spectroscopy show that no interactions between HgCl2 and MEG were detected for the test parameters studied. The findings from this work helps to improve the knowledge on the behaviour of HgCl2 within natural gas processing facilities, especially during transportation in pipelines and the MEG regeneration process.
Highlights•The flower like Au nanoparticles were successfully electrodeposited on functionalized carbon nanofiber.•The optimal electrochemical active surface area (EASA) of the F-CNF@Au modified electrode is obtained to be 1.67 cm2 for 20 cycle deposition.•The F-CNF@Au modified electrode exhibits efficient electrooxidation of hydrazine through direct electron transfer.•The low detection limit (8 nM) and high sensitivity (7.5 µA µM−1 cm−2) of hydrazine were achieved using F-CNF@Au modified electrode.•The excellent electrocatalytic activity of F-CNF@Au facilitate the detection of hydrazine in various water samples.AbstractA numerous number of carbon-based nanomaterials have been developed for various technological applications, nevertheless a degree of accessibility is very less. Notably, carbon nanofibers (CNFs) based materials are insufficiently studied compare to CNT and graphene due to their inaccessibility in aqueous dispersion. Here we have functionalized the CNF by using acid treatment for further modification. Functionalization of CNF was confirmed by different characterization techniques like FT-IR, RAMAN, and XRD. To increase the electrical conductivity of F-CNFs, flower-like Au nanoparticles were electrodeposited onto the F-CNFs. Optimization study for electrodeposition of Au nanoparticles was performed with Au precursor's concentration and deposition cycle number. As the result, the optimal electrochemical active surface area (EASA) of the modified electrode is obtained to be 1.67 cm2 for 20 cycles which are higher than that of the previously reported Au nanoparticles based literature. The developed material was used as an electrode modifier for the detection of hydrazine. As expected, the amperometric hydrazine sensor shows a very low detection limit of 8 nM with a high sensitivity of 7.5 µA µM−1 cm−2. The excellent analytical parameters of the F-CNF@Au/GCE modified electrode over the various related modified electrodes suggest that the electrode can be useful for use in trace level detection of hydrazine in several industrial and pharmaceutical applications.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (205KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe strength integrity and chemical stability of porous alumina ceramics operating under extreme service conditions are of major importance in understanding their service behavior if they are to stand the test of time. In the present study, the effect of porosity and different pore former type on the mechanical strength and corrosion resistance properties of porous alumina ceramics have been studied. Given the potential of agricultural wastes as pore-forming agents (PFAs), a series of porous alumina ceramics (Al2O3-xPFA; x=5, 10, 15 and 20 wt%) were successfully prepared from rice husk (RH) and sugarcane bagasse (SCB) through the powder metallurgy technique. Experimental results showed that the porosity (44–67%) and the pore size (70–178 µm) of porous alumina samples maintained a linear relationship with the PFA loading. Comprehensive mechanical strength characterization of the porous alumina samples was conducted not just as a function of porosity but also as a function of the different PFA type used. Overall, the mechanical properties showed an inverse relationship with the porosity as the developed porous alumina samples exhibited tensile and compressive strengths of 20.4–1.5 MPa and 179.5–10.9 MPa respectively. Moreover, higher strengths were observed in the SCB shaped samples up to the 15 wt% PFA mark, while beyond this point, the silica peak observed in the XRD pattern of the RH shaped samples favored their relatively high strength. The corrosion resistance characterization of the porous alumina samples in hot 10 wt% NaOH and 20 wt% H2SO4 solutions was also investigated by considering sample formulations with 5–15 wt% PFA addition. With increasing porosity, the mass loss range in RH and SCB shaped samples after corrosion in NaOH solution for 8 h were 1.25–3.6% and 0.44–2.9% respectively; on the other hand, after corrosion in H2SO4 solution for 8 h, the mass loss range in RH and SCB shaped samples were 0.62–1.5% and 0.68–3.3% respectively.
AbstractThis paper reports the study of the solvent (ethanol, toluene, acetonitrile and carbon tetrachloride) effect on the self-assembling of alkanethiol monolayers on a polished and electroreduced Ag90Ni10 alloy. Good quality organic films on such substrates are obtained from ethanolic solutions (n-dodecanethiol: 10−1 M, reaction time: 16 h). With similar reaction conditions, carbon tetrachloride leads to films of poor quality, while the organic layers formed from acetonitrile and toluene solutions are of intermediate quality.
Highlights•Examined the purposes of thermal blanching.•Summarized the indicators for assessment of blanching process.•Outlined the principles, applications and limitations of thermal blanching technologies.•Identified and discussed the future trends of thermal blanching.AbstractThermal blanching is an essential operation for many fruits and vegetables processing. It not only contributes to the inactivation of polyphenol oxidase (PPO), peroxidase (POD), but also affects other quality attributes of products. Herein we review the current status of thermal blanching. Firstly, the purposes of blanching, which include inactivating enzymes, enhancing drying rate and product quality, removing pesticide residues and toxic constituents, expelling air in plant tissues, decreasing microbial load, are examined. Then, the reason to why indicators such as POD and PPO, ascorbic acid, color, and texture are frequently used to evaluate blanching process is summarized. After that, the principles, applications and limitations of current thermal blanching methods, which include conventional hot water blanching, steam blanching, microwave blanching, ohmic blanching, and infrared blanching are outlined. Finally, future trends are identified and discussed.
AbstractThiacalix[4]arene derivatives are considered as specific ligands for metallic species in molecular recognition processes. In the present study, a new macrocyclic compound based on thiacalix[4]arene bearing three amide substituents is investigated for the extraction of gold and palladium in chloride media, and results are compared with those obtained with a similar ligand containing four amide substituents. Results obtained from liquid–liquid extraction experiments show that the new compound effectively extracts both Au and Pd, improving in the case of Pd the results obtained when using the more substituted ligand. Based on these results, a solid supported liquid membrane system has been developed for Pd and Au permeation containing the new ligand dissolved in NPOE as organic phase, and using 0.5 M NaSCN at pH 2 as stripping agent. Several parameters affecting liquid membrane performance have been investigated such as the chloride content in the feed solution and the chemical nature of the polymeric support used to immobilize the liquid membrane. Finally, the selectivity of the designed liquid membrane system has been evaluated under competitive metal transport conditions using as feed solutions a mixture of Pd and Au alone or in the presence of base metals.
AbstractThe effect of the plasticizer (butyl benzyl phthalate, BBP) addition on the corrosion resistance properties of paint films has been investigated by means of different electrochemical techniques (EIS and ac/dc/ac) and accelerated tests (salt fog spray). Primers based on epoxy resin were prepared with different plasticizer content (0, 1.5, 3, 5, 11, 16 and 25% in weight ratio to epoxy resin). An optimum quantity of plasticizer content (1.5–3%) was determined that gave the maximum anticorrosive performance of the epoxy primer. Results offered by each one of the techniques were quite similar and the ac/dc/ac one offered the results in a very short time (24 h).
AbstractThe role of EDTA on the behavior of Al in ethyleneglycol–water media has been investigated through electrochemical and atomic force microscopy measurements. It has been found that, at open circuit potential (OCP), as compared to an aqueous solution of the same pH, the adsorption of EDTA on the surface of the Al electrode is favored in ethyleneglycol rich mixtures. In these solutions, the defects of the aluminium oxide film are repaired due to the adsorption of the ligand, giving rise to a more protective layer. Moreover, as compared to the oxide film grown in the absence of EDTA, the one grown in its presence shows greater uniformity and lesser porosity, remaining stable for longer immersion periods.
Highlights•Novel hyperbranched poly(cyanurateamine) (POCYAM) synthesized.•POCYAM acts as a mixed-type inhibitor with predominant cathodic effectiveness.•POCYAM on mild steel follows physical adsorption mechanism.AbstractHyperbranched poly(cyanurateamine) (POCYAM) was tested as a novel corrosion inhibitor for mild steel in 0.5–3 M HCl using chemical and electrochemical techniques at 25–70 °C. The results show that this compound has good corrosion inhibiting properties for mild steel in HCl at very low concentrations. Corrosion inhibition efficiency rises with POCYAM concentration. The adsorption of the POCYAM onto the mild steel surface obeys Langmuir adsorption isotherm model. The inhibition mechanism was further corroborated by the values of thermodynamic parameters obtained from the experimental data.
Highlights•Phosphorus in Scenedesmus sp. microalgae was recovered as two different bioproducts.•Hydroxyapatite precipitated via the integrated flash hydrolysis-hydrothermal mineralization.•97 wt% of phosphate in the algae hydrolysate was recovered as carbonated hydroxyapatite.•Dittmarite was recovered via atmospheric precipitation process of algae hydrolysate.•Seed inoculation promoted crystallization/precipitation in both pathways.AbstractSeveral research efforts across the globe have been concerned with addressing the technical barriers in the commercialization of algae-based sustainable biorefineries. Nutrients cost and management and in particular, phosphorus, have been highlighted as one of the most significant challenges in algae cultivation and downstream processing. In this study, 83 wt% of phosphorus present in Scenedesmus sp. microalgae was extracted as water-soluble phosphate in aqueous phase via flash hydrolysis process while preserving the algae lipids. Subsequently, the phosphate containing aqueous phase (algae hydrolysate) was used for producing dittmarite and hydroxyapatite by two different mineralization processes. In the first pathway, more than 97 wt% of the phosphate in the hydrolysate was recovered in the form of carbonate-hydroxyapatite, a valuable biomaterial, at 280 °C within one hour of residence time via hydrothermal mineralization process. Whitlockite as the secondary phase was also observed along with the hydroxyapatite. In the second pathway, 67 wt% of the phosphate and 6 wt% of nitrogen were recovered as dittmarite (magnesium ammonium phosphate), an effective slow-release fertilizer, at 20 °C via an atmospheric precipitation process. The effects of seeding, temperature, reaction time, and mineralizers to PO4 molar ratio on phosphate removal as well as product yield were studied. This is the first kind of study in which flash hydrolysis and mineralization processes were integrated to provide an energy efficient platform for phosphorus recovery from microalgae in forms of value added compounds that could be suitable for long-term storage and handling. Through this experimental study, we report the shortest residence time for hydroxyapatite precipitation from an algal hydrolysate. The short residence could substantially save in reactor size and processing time as well as provide an option for high throughput which could result in a significant cost reduction in algae to bioproducts and biofuels.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (229KB)Download full-size image
AbstractA pulsed electrodeposition method is applied to the preparation of magnetic CoFe films. Common additives are used as leveling and brightening agents in the plating bath. In the present work, the effects of some organic additives such as saccharin, or such as phtalimide that contains no sulphur element are investigated on the cobalt-iron electrodeposition using potential–times transient curves. The composition, morphology and grain size of the deposits are examined by scanning electron microscopy and the corrosion properties are characterized by voltammetry. It is found that the electrocrystallization process of cobalt-iron is sensitive to organic additives nature. Experimental results indicate that even if the molecular structure of the phtalimide is quite similar to saccharin, the behavior during the electrodeposition of CoFe is not the same. The presence of sulfonamide groups seems to be responsible for the best anti-corrosion properties of the CoFe deposit. Moreover, the addition of organic additives such as saccharin decreases the iron deposition rate through a surface blocking and solution chelating process. However, pulsed electrodeposition with saccharin is shown to be an interesting technique to deposit bright and smooth CoFe films. A high Ton value for pulse plating parameter is advised.
AbstractPb-0.05% Ca and Pb-0.2% Ag-0.2% Sb anodes were tested to highlight the feasibility of reduction of both energy consumption and capital costs in zinc electrowinning from sulphate solutions without any modifications to the existing plant. Long duration electrowinning tests, carried out on a laboratory pilot plant using ethylene glycol as anodic depolariser, showed that a Pb-0.05% Ca anode can represent a good alternative for zinc electrodeposition. Although the specific energy consumption is greater than that obtained with a Pb-0.8% Ag anode, the lower material costs amply compensate this.
Highlights•pH sensitive microcapsules (pH-MC) were synthesized by emulsion polymerization.•Aluminum nitrate was released from pH-MC in both alkaline and acidic environments.•Decomposition of shell matrix occurred prior to release of core materials.•pH-MC containing cerium nitrate suppressed corrosion of steel sheet.AbstractA pH sensitive microcapsule (pH-MC) which can be decomposed in corrosive environments on metal substrates was synthesized and its release behavior was investigated. Ester chains which can be hydrolyzed under both alkaline and acidic conditions were successfully introduced into the shell wall of the pH-MC. In separate sets of experiments, cerium nitrate was encapsulated as a corrosion inhibitor, whereas aluminum nitrate was used to investigate the release property due its amphoteric nature. Study of the release behavior with the aluminum nitrate-containing pH-MC (Al-MC) demonstrated that the Al-MCs are sensitive to acidic and basic environments and are inactive in neutral environments. It was also found that hydrolysis of the ester chains occurred prior to release of the core materials. When immersed in an electrolyte with the cerium nitrate-containing pH-MC (Ce-MC), the open circuit potential (OCP) of a steel substrate showed a nobler potential than when immersed in an electrolyte without Ce-MC.
Publisher SummaryThis chapter focuses on generic completion installation activities that can affect the running of the completion and initiation of flow, particularly wellbore clean-outs and running tubing. Designing a safe and effective completion without considering how to install it is impossible. Safety is paramount and safe installation activities may require additional equipment and more time, for example, adequate barriers and pressure testing. Design modifications that safely and reliably speed up the installation activities should therefore be encouraged. Wellbore clean-outs may be required on multiple occasions, for example, before and after perforating or before running the lower completion and then again before running the upper completion. Before handing the well over to production, the well might be flowed to clean it up. This is particularly common on subsea wells. The purpose of the clean-up flow is to enable the well to flow once handed over and to remove any material that could settle or set before production. On the other hand, the procedures tell the completion installation team how to install the completion in a safe, unambiguous way and to capture lessons learnt. It does not imply that whoever is installing the completion lacks competence to decide the best method for constructing the completion, written procedures allow all parties to assess and review the operations.
Highlights•Mv10B is effective mixed type inhibitor in 1 M HCl.•Inhibition efficiency of compounds increases with increasing concentration.•Adsorption of compounds on steel surface obeys Langmuir's isotherm.•AFM method shows the existence of protective film of Mv10B on metal surface.•Theoretical calculations provide good support to experimental results.AbstractThe inhibition ability of 4-[bis[4-(dimethylamino)phenyl]methyl]-N,N-dimethylaniline (Mv10B) on carbon steel in 1 M HCl solution was studied by electrochemical techniques. Mv10B inhibited carbon steel corrosion in 1 M HCl solution significantly and the inhibition efficiency increased with Mv10B concentration. Potentiodynamic polarization results showed that Mv10B was a mixed-type inhibitor. The adsorption of Mv10B on steel surface followed Langmuir adsorption isotherm. The inhibition performance of Mv10B was also evidenced by AFM images. Computational investigations of studied inhibitor are performed by using HF method with 6-31++G(d,p) and 6-311++G(d,p) basis sets.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
Highlights•A novel organic-inorganic flow battery system using low-cost elements.•For a membrane-less configuration the open-circuit voltage is 1.17–1.59•The average coulombic efficiency is 71.8% over 20 cycles.•Voltammetry and dissolution experiments identify the performance limitations.AbstractThe capital cost of conventional redox flow batteries is relatively high (>USD$ 200/kWh) due to the use of expensive active materials and ion-exchange membranes. This paper presents a membrane-less hybrid organic-inorganic flow battery based on the low-cost elements zinc (<USD$ 3 Kg−1) and para-benzoquinone (<USD$ 8 Kg−1). Redox potential and voltammetric studies show that the open-circuit voltage of the battery is 1.17–1.59 V over a wide range of pH. Half-cell charge-discharge and dissolution experiments indicate that the negative electrode reaction is limiting due to the presence of chemical side reactions on the electrode surface. The positive electrode redox reactions are not affected and exhibit (half-cell) coulombic efficiencies of >92.7% with the use of carbon felt electrodes. In the presence of a fully oxidized active species close to its solubility limit, dissolution of the deposited anode is relatively slow (<2.37 g h−1 cm−2) with an equivalent corrosion current density of <1.9 mA cm−2. In a parallel plate flow configuration, the resulting battery was charge-discharge cycled at 30 mA cm−2 with average coulombic and energy efficiencies of c.a. 71.8 and c.a. 42.0% over 20 cycles, respectively.
Highlights•Fouling of MBR for megacity municipal wastewater was studied with plum rain season.•Plum rain season reduced pollutant removal because of organic carbon shortage.•Plum rain season increased inorganic particles and further enhanced pore blocking.•Plum rain season led to severer biofouling, but inhibited cake layer formation.AbstractThis study assessed membrane biofouling and its gel layer of anoxic/oxic membrane bioreactor (A/O-MBR) for megacity municipal wastewater treatment during plum rain season, which was continuous rainy weather, in Yangtze River Delta, China. A laboratory-scale A/O-MBR was operated to treat the municipal wastewater from Quyang wastewater treatment plant, which located at the typical megacity of Shanghai in Yangtze River Delta, from April to July accompanying with plum rain season. As reactor performance showed, CODCr, NH4+-N, TN, TP of the influent gradually decreased during plum rain season, and inhibited pollutant removal due to organic carbon shortage. However, dissolve inorganic carbon and inorganic components in mixed liquid had an obvious increase under rainy weather. Membrane filtration results indicated that plum rain season enhanced pore blocking behavior, further leading to the serious membrane biofouling but inhibiting gel layer formation. Additionally, gel layer analysis predicted that plum rain season led to plenty of inorganic components and precipitate flew into A/O-MBR reactor. Inorganic components with elements of Ca, Mg Ba, Fe, Al and Si seriously blocked membrane pores. Those components also accumulated into gel layer in the form of SiO2, CaCO3, CaSiO3, MgNH4PO4, BaCO3, AlPO4, etc. Consequently, plum rain season enhanced pore blocking behavior and led to severe membrane biofouling but with the inhibition of gel layer formation.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (316KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe colloidal stability of halloysite clay nanotubes dispersion is reviewed showing the strategy and the mechanism to obtain stable systems in water and apolar solvents. The selective modification of halloysite inner/outer surfaces can be achieved by exploiting electrostatic interactions. The adsorption of anionic surfactants onto the halloysite cavity allows generating inorganic cylindrical micelles that can be separated from the solvent. On the other hand, the functionalization of halloysite shell by positively charged surfactants drives to obtain stable water-in-oil emulsions. The interactions with ionic and nonionic polymers alters the dispersability of halloysite due to electrostatic and steric effects that are strongly dependent on the nanoarchitecture of the hybrid systems.Modified nanotubes by selective interactions lead to the formation of colloidal systems with tuneable surface properties and controlled colloidal stability adjusted to the solvent polarity. These dispersions are perspectives nanocarriers for substances such as antioxidants, biocides, drugs and corrosion inhibitors, to be released in response to external stimuli.
Highlights•PES membranes of 30,000 g mol−1 were modified by UV photografting.•UV photografting using PEG/Al2O3 nanoparticles with different concentrations were studied.•Pure water flux and solute rejection of the membranes increased after modification.•Hydrophilicity of PES membranes improved for enhanced surfaces.•Membranes photomodified with PEG/Al2O3 exhibited the best antifouling properties.AbstractPolyethersulfone ultrafiltration membranes prepared via immersion precipitation with similar pore size were modified using UV irradiation with two nano-sized hydrophilic compounds of a different nature (an organic compound and a metal oxide). Effects of PEG/Al2O3 nanoparticles on membrane structure and the resulting performance were compared to determine the material with the best antifouling properties. Membranes were characterized by hydrophilicity (water contact angle, porosity, equilibrium water content and average pore radius), surface microscopic techniques (ATR-FTIR, SEM, EDX and AFM) and cross-flow ultrafiltration experiments (hydraulic permeability, membrane resistance and antifouling measurements). Membrane antifouling properties were analyzed by several fouling/rinsing cycles using feed solutions of PEG of 35,000 g mol−1 with a concentration of 5 g L−1. Water contact angle measurements, ATR-FTIR spectra, SEM images and EDX analysis indicated the presence of PEG/Al2O3 nanoparticles on the membrane surface. All UV-grafted membranes had higher hydraulic permeability than the unmodified membrane. Furthermore, polyethersulfone membranes photografted with 2.0 wt% PEG and 0.5 wt% Al2O3 displayed superior antifouling properties and desirable performance compared to all membranes tested. Therefore, this study proved that UV photografting of PEG/Al2O3 onto membrane surfaces is an appropriate technique for modifying polyethersulfone membranes to minimize membrane fouling.
SummaryThe use of a systems approach to conveyor maintenance that includes selection of proper lubricants, automatic lubrication equipment, effective on-line cleaning equipment, and an effective service program will result in increased operating efficiency and improved product quality due to reduced contamination. And remember maintenance doesn't cost, it pays.
AbstractThe lithium/sulfur battery is a promising electrochemical system with high capacity, which is well-known to undergo a complex multistep reaction during the discharge process. Two types of electrolytes including poly(ethylene glycol) dimethyl ether (PEGDME)-based and 1,3-dioxolane (DOL)/dimethoxyethane (DME)-based electrolytes were investigated here. Furthermore, LiNO3 additive was introduced into the electrolyte in order to effectively eliminate the overcharge effect. The lithium sulfur battery with 1.0 M LiN(CF3SO2)2 in PEGDME with 0.1 M LiNO3 shows highly stable reversible capacity of 624.8 mAh g−1 after 200 cycles and improved average coulombic efficiency of 98%.Highlights► Two types of electrolytes were investigated here. ► LiNO3 additive was introduced into the electrolyte to eliminate the overcharge effect. ► Highly stable reversible capacity of 624.8 mAh g−1 after 200 cycles can be obtained. ► Average coulombic efficiency of 98% can be achieved.
AbstractA novel and fairly efficient chemoselective one-pot method has been developed for the synthesis of both 2-phenylamino-5-alkylthio-1,3,4-thiadiazole and bis-(2-phenylamino-5-alkylthio-)1,3,4-thiadiazole derivatives from phenylthiosemicarbazide and CS2.
Highlights•Novel diaminobenzene film on ERGO was fabricated by potentiodynamic method.•p-DAB@ERGO/GC shows excellent activity towards nitrite.•The proposed sensor exhibits lowest detection limit and wide linear range.•Modified electrode was successfully applied to the analysis in water samples.AbstractAn electrode comprised of a polydiaminobenzene (p-DAB) film formed on electrochemically reduced graphene oxide (ERGO) on a glassy carbon (GC) (p-DAB@ERGO/GC) was fabricated using a potentiodynamic method for the sensitive and selective determination of nitrite in the presence of a common interference. The p-DAB@ERGO/GC film-modified electrode surfaces were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), Raman spectroscopy, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and cyclic voltammetry. The film fabrication was initiated via the NH2 groups of DAB, which was confirmed by XPS from the peaks corresponding to NH (396.7 eV), NH (399.4 eV), NN (400.2 eV), and N+H (402.2 eV). The Raman spectra revealed the characteristic D and G bands at 1348 and 1595 cm− 1, respectively, which confirmed the fabrication of GO on the GC electrode, and the ratio of the D and G bands was increased after the electrochemical reduction of GO. The surface coverage of the modified electrode was 8.16 × 10− 11 mol cm− 2. The p-DAB@ERGO/GC film-modified electrode was used successfully for the determination of nitrite ions. The p-DAB@ERGO/GC film-modified electrode exhibited superior activity for the determination of nitrite compared to the bare GC and p-DAB@GC electrodes. The amperometric current increased linearly with increasing nitrite concentration from 7.0 × 10− 6 to 2.0 × 10− 2 M. The detection limit was 30 nM (S/N = 3). In addition, the modified electrode was used successfully to determine the nitrite ion concentration in the presence of a 100-fold excess of common interferents. The practical application of the modified electrode was demonstrated by determining the nitrite ion concentration in water samples.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (205KB)Download full-size image
AbstractElectrokinetic geosynthetics (EKGs) were developed about a decade ago, producing a material that did not experience the same corrosion problems as metal electrodes when used in electro-osmotic (EO) dewatering applications. The conductive polymeric material from which EKGs are made has the additional advantage of being able to be formed into a variety of shapes, including drainage tubes such as those used in this study. One of the primary concerns regarding EO dewatering applications is the rate of energy consumption. This paper reports experiments at three different scales, on different mine tailings materials, that illustrates the potentially misleading results obtained from small scale laboratory tests. Using large, outdoor tests, power consumption rates for treating a kaolinitic mineral sands tailings and a smectitic diamond tailings were found to be up to 30 times lower than the power consumption rates obtained from laboratory tests using small samples in a purpose built EO cell. The primary reason for the improved performance is thought to be the lower voltage gradient used in the field tests, plus the geometric advantages offered by a field layout where a greater volume of material is exposed to the EO effect than only the material directly between the electrodes, which is the case in the EO cell tests. Finally, in the field tests the EO treatment caused the early development of vertical cracks in the tailings, resulting in increased exposure of the tailings to the effects of solar drying. This effect cannot obviously be reproduced in the EO cell laboratory tests, and can be a major advantage for the in situ treatment of mine tailings lagoons, where in some materials the onset of cracking is significantly delayed by the development of an impermeable surface crust.
Publisher SummaryThis chapter presents an overview of the sources of nitrogen (N) input to grazed grasslands, the dynamics of N in grassland soils, and environmental impacts of N losses. It discusses the role of inhibitors in improving N bioavailability and mitigating N losses. As N exists in many different inorganic and organic forms in soils and these N forms undergo several transformations, an understanding of N dynamics can help to illustrate the importance of N bioavailability and its fate in the environment. A brief summary of N inputs and dynamics in grazed pastures is presented in the chapter. The environmental impacts of N losses are outlined. The role of inhibitors in improving the N bioavailability and mitigating N losses is illustrated. A brief description is presented of the research on the use of inhibitors in New Zealand. The gaps and the limitations from the existing information are identified. The main research needs to devise mitigation strategies with inhibitors are presented.
Highlights•The review outlined latest applications of iron-based materials in uranium remediation.•Remediation technologies or mechanisms involved in uranium removal are reviewed.•The effectiveness and safety considerations of the using iron-based materials were discussed.•Future directions on uranium remediation and iron-based materials development were proposed.AbstractRemediating uranium contamination is of worldwide interest because of the increasing release of uranium from mining and processing, nuclear power leaks, depleted uranium components in weapons production and disposal, and phosphate fertilizer in agriculture activities. Iron-based technologies are attractive because they are highly efficient, inexpensive, and readily available. This paper provides an overview of the current literature that addresses the application of iron-based technologies in the remediation of sites with elevated uranium levels. The application of iron-based materials, the current remediation technologies and mechanisms, and the effectiveness and environmental safety considerations of these approaches were discussed. Because uranium can be reduced and reoxidized in the environment, the review also proposes strategies for long-term in situ remediation of uranium. Unfortunately, iron-based materials (nanoscale zerovalent iron and iron oxides) can be toxic to microorganisms. As such, further studies exploring the links among the fates, ecological impacts, and other environmentally relevant factors are needed to better understand the constraints on using iron-based technologies for remediation.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (247KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Ballast water sediments contain high diverse bacteria community.•Sulfate reduction and oxidization bacteria are largely detected in ballast tank sediment.•The undesirable bacteria in sediments could reduce the efficiency of ballast water exchange.AbstractThis study aims to reveal the composition and influencing factors of bacterial communities in ballast tank sediments. Nine samples were collected and their 16S rRNA gene sequences were analyzed by high-throughput sequencing. The analysis results showed the Shannon index in ballast tank sediments was in the range of 5.27–6.35, which was significantly higher than that in ballast water. Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi and Proteobacteria were the dominant phyla and accounted for approximately 80% of all 16S rRNA gene sequences of the samples. Besides, the high contents of sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB) and sulfur oxidizing bacteria were detected in sediments, indicating that the corrosion of metal caused by SRB might occur in ballast tank. In addition, the trace of human fecal bacteria and candidate pathogens were also detected in ballast tank sediments, and these undesirable microbes reduced the effect of ballast water exchange. Furthermore, C and N had significant effects on the bacterial community composition in ballast tank sediments. In conclusion, our findings suggest that the proper management and disposal of the ballast tank sediments should be considered in order to reduce the negative impact and ecological risks related to ballast water and sediments.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (375KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Sub-micrometer mesoporous silica containers were prepared for loading corrosion inhibitor.•Controlled release of 8-HQ from the containers was found in response to pH change.•The self-healing ability of the epoxy coatings containing containers was proved by SVET.AbstractIn the present work, the sub-micrometer containers were prepared using mesoporous silica particles (SBA-15) with parallel channels as reservoir and 8-hydroxyquinoline as corrosion inhibitor. Layer-by-layer assembling was used to construct a shell of polyelectrolytes around the silica particles. Release of 8-hydroxyquinoline from sub-micrometer containers was studied in response to acidic or alkaline pH values. The results of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) show the improvement of corrosion resistance of epoxy coatings containing sub-micrometer containers. Self-healing ability of the epoxy coatings was provided by sub-micrometer containers, as evidenced by the results of scanning vibrating electrode technique (SVET).
AbstractThis study examines the effect of cobalt addition on the corrosion resistance of low alloy steel in a 10 wt.% sulfuric acid solution at room temperature. All specimens show passive behaviors over the potential range, 0.5–1.55 VSCE, and the passive current density decreased with increasing Co addition. The Co-containing steels also show higher polarization resistance and lower corrosion rate. The beneficial effect of Co is attributed to the formation of a uniform and continuous rust layer due to an interaction between Co and other elements such as Fe, O and S.Highlights► The corrosion rate decreased with increasing Co content ranging from 0 to 0.1 wt.%. ► Surface analyses showed that the addition of Co created a thick and uniform rust layer. ► The interaction between Co and Fe and other elements improved the formation of a continuous and adherent rust layer.
AbstractPhase separation phenomena in metallic glass systems are reviewed. First, a brief introduction to the enhanced glass forming ability and the phase separation in metallic glass systems is given. Nano-scale phase separation observed in frozen-in glass is discussed in marginal glass formers such as Pd-, Fe, Al-base metallic glass systems as well as in bulk glass formers in Cu-, Zr- and Mg-base metallic glass systems. Since retention of glass forming ability is essential in phase separating glasses, thermodynamic and kinetic conditions for enhanced glass forming ability is introduced. Several thermodynamic aspects for decomposition by liquid–liquid phase separation which include stability conditions, decomposition in the multicomponent system, types of miscibility gap, calculation of bimodal and spinodal curves are introduced as a background for design of metallic glasses phase separating in the liquid state. The main mechanisms for phase separation are nucleation and growth mechanism and spinodal decomposition mechanism. The metallic glass systems which include an atom pair with large positive enthalpy of mixing decompose by liquid–liquid phase separation separate in the liquid state, forming two typical types of microstructure: droplet or interconnected type microstructures depending on the mechanism of phase separation. By calculation of the tile line, it is possible to design phase separating metallic glasses with high glass forming ability. Eventually, bulk-type phase separating metallic glasses with mm scale can be synthesized. Moreover, if there is a group of three atoms with large positive enthalpy of mixing in the liquid state in the multicomponent system, occurrence of three phase separation in the liquid state is possible. There are several parameters affecting the microstructure evolution during phase separation, which includes glass transition and critical temperatures, shape of bimodal and spinodal curves and quenching conditions. Phase separation in the solid state of the frozen-in glasses can give a clue on the phase separation prior to crystallization or direct nanocrystallization from the amorphous matrix. The amplitude of the composition fluctuation with a fixed wavelength can grow by heating in the solid state, if the spinodal decomposition. Finally, some advantages of phase separation phenomena in metallic glass systems are highlighted.
AbstractA multi-residue analytical method based on high-performance liquid chromatographic separation, electrospray ionization with tandem mass spectrometric detection (HPLC/MS–MS) was developed for the simultaneous analysis of 46 basic, neutral and acidic compounds covering a wide range of polarity (log KOW < 0–5.9). The compound list included selected iodinated contrast media, analgesics, anti-inflammatories, stimulants, beta-blockers, antibiotics, lipid regulators, anti-histamines, psychiatric drugs, herbicides, corrosion inhibitors and the gastric acid regulator pantoprazole. The main feature of the presented method was a simultaneous solid phase extraction (SPE) of all analytes followed by simultaneous separation and detection by HPLC/MS–MS with electrospray ionization in both positive and negative polarization within the same chromatogram. Optimization of electrospray drying gas temperature resulted in using a temperature gradient on the ion source. Six different polymeric sorbents for SPE were compared with respect to recoveries, taking into account the specific surface of each sorbent. Method quantitation limits (MQL) in surface and seawater ranged from 1.2 to 28 ng/L, in wastewater from 5.0 to 160 ng/L, respectively. In order to demonstrate the applicability of the method, river water, treated wastewater and seawater were analyzed.
Highlights•50 ppm of AMP had marginal effect on the corrosion of X80 steel.•Corrosion rate was decreased as the AMP concentration increased further.•Flow was found to accelerate the propagation of pits.•The combination of PZ and AMP could not inhibit pitting corrosion efficiently.•AMP-PZ inhibited corrosion owing to both neutralization and adsorption effects.AbstractThe corrosion of steels in the supercritical CO2 environment with impurities in a carbon capture, utilization and storage system has attracted great interests in recent years. In this work, corrosion inhibition mechanisms of the residual 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol and piperazine from the CO2 capture process on X80 steel within an impure supercritical CO2 environment were investigated by weight-loss method and surface analysis techniques. The results showed that a small amount of 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol had marginal effect on the corrosion of steel. Corrosion rate was decreased as the 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol concentration increased further. When 100 ppm 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol + 50 ppm piperazine was added, a lowest corrosion rate was observed, reaching 0.41mm/a. Meanwhile, pitting corrosion was observed under all conditions. The combination of 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol and piperazine cannot inhibit pitting corrosion efficiently, while flow accelerated the propagation of pits in the presence of 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol. FeSO4 was confirmed as the corrosion product for all conditions. RNH3+, PZH+, Fe2O3 and Fe3O4 were detected in the corrosion products depending on the test conditions. The results indicated that the inhibition mechanism of piperazine and 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol was attributed to both the neutralization and adsorption effects on the steel surface. A non-uniform adsorption inhibition mechanism is proposed based on these test results.
Highlights•High extent mass recovery of network magnetic alginate hydrogel beads.•High adsorption ability for MB in aqueous solutions.•High regeneration efficiency and recovery extent (RCE) in aqueous media.•Response surface methodology was used to optimize the removal efficiency.AbstractThis work goes inside the understanding of organic pollutants adsorption mechanism over network alginate hydrogel beads based on immobilized bio-sourced PC@Fe3O4-NPs (PC@Fe3O4-NPs@Alginate) and highlights its high extent mass recovery in aqueous media. The samples were successfully synthesized, we previously developed porous carbon (PC), which, was used to elaborate PC@Fe3O4-NPs via simple in situ coprecipitation (PC@ Fe3O4-NPs), which was encapsulated by alginate-Ca2+ via the blend crosslinking method. The structural, textural, chemical and morphological proprieties of as prepared materials were studied by XRD, FTIR, Raman spectroscopy, nitrogen adsorption-desorption, XPS, SEM and TEM. The adsorption kinetic and isotherm data were well fitted to the pseudo-second-order and Langmuir models. Magnetic particles exhibited an excellent ability to adsorb methylene blue (MB) from aqueous solutions with maximum MB adsorption capacity of 180.42 mg g−1 (PC@Fe3O4 NPs powder) and 49.66 mg g−1 (beads based PC@Fe3O4-NPs@Alginate). Response surface methodology was used to optimize the removal efficiency of MB from aqueous solution and optimum parameters were determined. Magnetic beads based PC showed good magnetic propriety, long-term stability, regeneration capabilities and high extent mass recovery.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (285KB)Download full-size image

Highlights•Cu NPs can greatly enhance the reductive reactivity of GR.•GR/Cu NPs is more reactive than GR/Cu2+ system.•The Cu NPs loading on GR is optimized.•GR/Cu NPs remains high reactivity at pH from 7 to 10.•GR/Cu NPs is less susceptible to the presence of CO32– and humic acid compared to pure GR.AbstractThis paper describes the reduction of p-nitrophenol by green rusts (GRs) interlayered with common inorganic anions (Cl−, SO42− and CO32−). Modifying of GRs with zero-valent Cu nanoparticles (Cu0 NPs) can greatly enhance the reductive reactivity of GRs via the formation of a galvanic couple between the GRs and the Cu0 NPs, as confirmed by an increased corrosion current. The direct addition of Cu0 NPs excludes the possible formation of less active mono-valent Cu in the GRs/Cu2+ system. Oxidation of GRs does not occur upon the addition of Cu0 NPs, thus a decline in electron transfer from the oxidized GRs to the Cu0 NPs is avoided. The optimum Cu0 NPs loading on GRCl is 0.5% wt. The GRCl/Cu0 NPs retains high reactivity in the studied pH range from 7 to 10, while the presence of NO3−, PO43−, SO42−, CO32– and humic acid inhibits PNP reduction by the GRCl and GRCl/Cu0 NPs. The GRCl/Cu0 NPs system is less susceptible to the presence of CO32– and humic acid compared to the pure GRCl system due to the migration of the PNP reduction sites from the GRs to the Cu0 NPs. This work sheds light on a new strategy for enhancing GR-based materials for use in groundwater remediation.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (179KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•The studied gelatin revealed good surface active properties.•Improvement produced in EP by the studied gelatin was due to the adsorption of such agents on the anode surface.•In the presence of gelatin, the solution appeared hopeful, and a distinct improvement in the finish was noted.AbstractElectropolishing behavior of steel was studied in orthophosphoric acid in the presence of gelatin for improving the finish obtained. This was inspected by surface tension measurement and potentiodynamic polarization by measuring the limiting current in solutions containing different concentrations of gelatin. Gelatin addition to electropolishing solution results in a lower limiting current. The gelatin surface parameters were calculated from its surface tension. The parameters considered include critical micelle concentration (CMC), maximum surface excess (Гmax), minimum surface area (Amin) and effectiveness (πCMC). Thermodynamic parameters of micellization (ΔGmic, ΔSmic) for gelatin were also calculated. Gelatin records greatest reduction of surface tension (effectiveness, πcmc) and higher minimum area (Amin). This behavior agrees with the highest inhibition efficiency results obtained from a potentiodynamic method. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) was used to investigate steel surface after electropolishing in the absence and presence of gelatin. The addition of a higher concentration of gelatin was successful to enhance steel surface quality.
Highlights•Zinc ferrocyanide was developed and used as a novel inhibiting and sensing pigment in the coating.•Zinc ferrocyanide has a storage capacity of 200 meq/100 g, and releases inhibitors at a high rate.•The crystal structure change makes the pigmented coating to be a sensing coating.AbstractThe fabrication and application of zinc ferrocyanide ion exchange compounds for use as inhibiting and sensing pigments in protective paints and primers for metals and alloys are described in this paper. A distinctive property of these ferrocyanide pigments is an ability to store corrosion inhibitors and then release them when needed by an ion exchange process. The exchange process is triggered when moisture containing Na+ and K+ ions contacts inhibitor particles embedded in an organic coating. The exchange kinetics were studied by measuring the concentration of released zinc ions in the solution with inductively coupled plasma. The inhibitor storage capacity can be as high as 200 meq/100 g, and it is much higher than that found in other reported ion exchange compounds. Furthermore, structure changes from non-crystalline to crystalline, upon exchange with alkaline ions, can be detected by x-ray diffraction, providing an important indication of activation of the corrosion protection. This is a form of corrosion sensing. The inhibition performance of zinc ferrocyanide in the coating was examined by salt spray tests and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and both tests showed that zinc ferrocyanide could provide good protection on aluminum alloy 2024.
Highlights•The removal of CAAs by iron increased first and then decreased with increasing DO concentration from 0 to 7.09 mg/L.•The maximum AA formation during three CAA degradations was obtained at 1.52 mg/L DO.•Two structures of iron corrosion coatings were proposed to explain CAA removal mechanism under anoxic and oxic conditions.AbstractThe monochloroacetic, dichloroacetic and trichloroacetic acid (MCAA, DCAA and TCAA) removed by metallic iron under controlled dissolved oxygen conditions (0, 0.75, 1.52, 2.59, 3.47 or 7.09 mg/L DO) was investigated in well-mixed batch systems. The removal of CAAs increased first and then decreased with increasing DO concentration. Compared with anoxic condition, the reduction of MCAA and DCAA was substantially enhanced in the presence of O2, while TCAA reduction was significantly inhibited above 2.59 mg/L. The 1.52 mg/L DO was optimum for the formation of final product, acetic acid. Chlorine mass balances were 69–102%, and carbon mass balances were 92–105%. With sufficient mass transfer from bulk to the particle surface, the degradation of CAAs was limited by their reduction or migration rate within iron particles, which were dependent on the change of reducing agents and corrosion coatings. Under anoxic conditions, the reduction of CAAs was mainly inhibited by the available reducing agents in the conductive layer. Under low oxic conditions, the increasing reducing agents and thin lepidocrocite layer were favorable for CAA dechlorination. Under high oxic conditions, the redundant oxygen competing for reducing agents and significant lepidocrocite growth became the major restricting factors. Various CAA removal mechanisms could be potentially applied to explaining the effect of DO concentration on iron efficiency for contaminant reduction in water and wastewater treatment.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (157KB)Download full-size image
In recent years, a large number of linear and nonlinear laser-based diagnostic techniques for nonintrusive measurements of species concentrations, temperatures, and gas velocities in a wide pressure and temperature range with high temporal and spatial resolution were developed and have become extremely valuable tools to study many aspects of combustion. Modern “pump-probe” laser spectroscopic methods give direct insight into the microscopic dynamics, product channel distributions, and reaction rates of elementary combustion reactions over a wide range of temperatures and pressures. Nonlinear laser spectroscopic techniques using infrared-visible sum-frequency generation can now bridge the pressure and materials gap to provide kinetic data for catalytic combustion. Laminar flames are ideal objects to develop the application of laser spectroscopic methods for practical combustion systems and to test and improve gas-phase reaction mechanism in combustion models. Besides diagnostics, lasers can also provide well-defined starting conditions for detailed experimental and theoretical studies of ignition processes. Non-intrusive laser point and field measurements, especially joint velocity-scalar data at the same point in space and time, are of basic importance in the validation and further development of turbulent combustion models. As an are for the application of quanitative laser spectroscopy to practical combustion devices, investigations in internal combustion engines are described. Finally, the potential of laser techniques for active combustion control in various devices from laboratory burners to full-scale jet engines, municipal waste incinerators, and pressurized fluidized-bed reactors are illustrated.
Highlights•Electropolymerized layers of Carvacrol (Carv) and Thymol (TOH) were formed on Cu.•FTIR analysis showed the presence of cetonic and ether structures within the layers.•Composition, structure and protective characteristics of the layers were quite different.•PolyCarv layer was transparent and more protective against corrosion than polyTOH.•A high impact of molecular structure on the characteristics of the layers was found.AbstractA comparative study of the electropolymerization of two natural phenolic isomers, carvacrol (Carv) and thymol (TOH) on copper was made. They are components of Origanum vulgare and Thymus vulgaris essential oils. Polymerized layers (polyCarv and polyTOH) were attained by cyclic voltammetry (CV). Electrochemical techniques complemented by ATR-FTIR, XPS, SEM and AFM surface analyses were used to evaluate the composition and protective characteristics of the films. Results revealed that the electrochemical response in chloride solutions was dissimilar. Copper ions release by polyCarv in chloride solutions was lower than 30% of that obtained with TOH treatments. PolyCarv is a highly protective, transparent film, remarkably different from the brownish, rough and non-protective film obtained with TOH. ATR-FTIR results showed that the oxidation of adsorbed Carv and TOH led to cetonic structures while after electropolymerization ether bonds were also found. However, polyCarv and polyTOH showed important differences in ν-OH band. Deconvolution of C1s signal of XPS spectra led to four contributions with different proportions for polyCarv and polyTOH. Accordingly, C(ph)-O is 50% of total C1s for polyCarv and 30% for polyTOH. C1s/O1s relationships were also different. AFM and SEM observations showed the presence of round flakes, smaller for polyCarv (5 nm height) than for TOH (35 nm height). A compact layer was found in case of polyCarv but cauliflower and sticks structures with cracks were found for polyTOH. In summary, results showed the important impact of the molecular structure on the composition, structure and protective characteristics of the polymeric layers. A mechanism is proposed to interpret these results.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (338KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe influence of high burn-up structured material on UO2 corrosion has been studied in an autoclave experiment. The experiment was conducted on spent fuel fragments with an average burn-up of 67 GWd/tHM. They were corroded in a simplified groundwater containing 33 mM dissolved H2 for 502 days. All redox sensitive elements were reduced. The reduction continued until a steady-state concentration was reached in the leachate for U at 1.5 × 10−10 M and for Pu at 7 × 10−11 M. The instant release of Cs during the first 7 days was determined to 3.4% of the total inventory. However, the Cs release stopped after release of 3.5%. It was shown that the high burn-up structure did not enhance fuel corrosion.
Highlights•Cetrimonium bromide (CTAB) is used to inhibit tin electrochemical migration (ECM).•We find CTAB could serve as an effective inhibitor of tin ECM.•We find CTAB affected the electrodeposition during tin ECM by selective adsorption.AbstractThis paper presents a new strategy involving the introduction of the common cationic surfactant cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (cetrimonium bromide, CTAB) to inhibit the electrochemical migration (ECM) of tin in thin electrolyte layers containing chloride ions. The inhibitory effect of different CTAB concentrations on tin ECM under different bias voltages was evaluated using in situ electrochemical and optical techniques, as well as ex situ characterizations. Results showed that CTAB can effectively inhibit tin ECM, and CTAB affected the electrodeposition during tin ECM by selective adsorption. Mechanisms were proposed to explain the beneficial role of CTAB.
In this article Anthony Bennett investigates the use of filtration and separation technology in the fine chemical sectors, including the pharmaceutical and biotechnical chemical industries. He looks at the production of the chemicals themselves, the generation of process water for chemical dilution and the treatment of effluent from chemical synthesis processes.
AbstractThe pre-treatment of a pharmaceutical wastewater (PWW) by Fenton oxidation with zero-valent iron (ZVI) and hydrogen peroxide was investigated to improve the degradation of the complex-mixture of organic compounds present in the wastewater. The influence of different crucial parameters such as the initial hydrogen peroxide concentration, the ZVI concentration and the capacity of the ZVI/H2O2 system to treat different organic loading have been evaluated. The optimal conditions for degradation led to TOC reductions of up to 80% in only 1 h of treatment. This degree of organic mineralization was reached by using moderate loadings of ZVI and hydrogen peroxide (ZVI/TOC weight and H2O2/TOC molar ratios of 12 and 3.2, respectively). Moreover, the use of waste-metallic iron shavings in terms of TOC removal compared to commercial ZVI powder may be a promising and cheaper development.Graphical abstractDownload full-size imageHighlights► Excellent removal of complex organic pollutants present in wastewater generated from a drug manufacturing plant. ► Up to 80% TOC removal reached in 1 h treatment, using moderate loadings of ZVI and H2O2. ► Easy, economic and effective pre-treatment step.
AbstractFor valve regulated lead acid (VRLA) applications involving deep cycling, significant cycle life improvement can be achieved by applying pressure to the plates via the compressible recombinant battery separator mat (RBSM). However, the latest work is showing that the plate-group pressure needs to be much higher than previously assumed, in order to inhibit positive active material expansion and capacity loss. This will require changes not only to the separator, but also to the battery design and assembly techniques. Techniques to apply very high pressures to the cell group during battery assembly need to be developed. Changes to the container design and materials may also be needed, and the overall battery design may need to include an internal or external means to maintain the applied pressure throughout battery life. Less compressible separators may also enable higher plate-group pressures to be maintained.This paper will review possible strategies to achieve these objectives of maintaining plate-group pressure and extending VRLA battery cycle life.
Highlights•The controlled-release strategy can improve the anticorrosion performance of the corrosion inhibitor.•The controlled-release strategy can have a relatively long-term effect.•The controlled-release is realized by using the layered double hydroxides intercalating with molybdate anions.AbstractZn-Al layered double hydroxides (LDHs) intercalating with molybdate anions was developed to inhibit the corrosion of mild steel in neutral chloride conditions. The LDH compounds were prepared by a method involving co-precipitation and anion-exchange and characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), respectively. The anticorrosion capabilities of the LDHs hybrids were analyzed by using open circuit potential (OCP), electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and potentiodynamic polarization curve. A significant reduction of the corrosion rate is observed in the presence of a 2 g/L concentration of the LDHs hybrids in the corrosive media. The mechanism is that the intercalated molybdate anion can slowly diffuse out of the inner structure of LDHs in a controllable way and result in a relatively long-term effect of corrosion inhibition. The result presented here underlines the great potential of the controlled release mechanism for marine anticorrosion applications.Graphical AbstractDownload high-res image (123KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe catalytic oxidation of benzyl alcohol is studied by means of on-line differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS) on both palladium and platinum electrodes. The objective of this work is to investigate the reactivity of the adsorbed species remaining on the electrode surface after a flow-cell experiment and the influence of electrode composition. It is found that the adsorbates formed during the oxidative adsorption of benzyl alcohol are desorbed in the positive-going potential scan as CO2 for platinum and palladium, although benzene is also detected on the latter. Adsorbate yields depend on both potential and electrode composition.
Highlights•Biostimulation by cosubstrates addition enhanced the DDX degradation in soil.•Glycerol induced anoxic sulfidogenic process mediated by sulfate- reducing bacteria.•Toluene induced biotic degradation of DDX mediated by oxygenases as initial step.•Microbial community changes were observed after aerobic and anoxic treatments.AbstractAbiotic and biotic processes can be used to remediate DDX (DDT, DDD, DDE, and DDNS) contaminated soils; these processes can be fostered using specific carbon-amendments to stimulate particular soil indigenous microbial communities to improve rates or extent of degradation. In this study, toluene and glycerol were evaluated as cosubstrates under aerobic and anoxic conditions to determine the degradation efficiencies of DDX and to elucidate possible degradation mechanisms. Slurry microcosms experiments were performed during 60 days using pretreated soil with zero-valent iron (ZVI). Toluene addition enhanced the percentage of degradation of DDX. DDNS was the main compound degraded (around 86%) under aerobic conditions, suggesting cometabolic degradation of DDX by toluene-degrading soil bacteria. Glycerol addition under anoxic conditions favored the abiotic degradation of DDX mediated by sulfate-reducing bacteria activity, where DDT was the main compound degraded (around 90%). The 16S rDNA metagenomic analyses revealed Rhodococcus ruber and Desulfosporosinus auripigmenti as the predominant bacterial species after 40 days of treatment with toluene and glycerol additions, respectively. This study provides evidence of biotic and abiotic DDX degradation by the addition of toluene and glycerol as cosubstrates in ZVI pretreated DDX-contaminated soil.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (204KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Application of DSA to the analysis of writing inks.•Comparison of DSA-TOF-MS, nano UHPLC–Orbitrap MS, and GC-MS of writing inks.•Direct sample analysis identified the highest number of compounds in ink writing.•Pros and cons of using ambient ionization techniques for the analysis of writing inks.AbstractDirect sample analysis (DSA) coupled with high resolution, high mass accuracy time of flight mass spectrometry (TOF-MS) is an emerging technique for the in situ analysis of various substances. DSA is similar to desorption electrospray ionization (DESI) and direct analysis in real time (DART), however, it uses an atmospheric pressure chemical ionization source for ionization of organic compounds. In this study, DSA was applied to the identification of 80 black and blue writing inks from both ballpoint and non-ballpoint pens. Approximately 3 mm sections of each writing was placed on the DSA sample holder and analyzed in an automated fashion. The holder can analyze 13 samples in a serial manner. Utilizing a high mass accuracy TOF-MS and using internal calibration, mass accuracy of <6 ppm was achieved. Moreover, the results obtained from DSA analysis were compared with the extraction of the ink from the paper and its analysis by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC–MS) and nano ultra-high performance liquid chromatography–Orbitrap mass spectrometry (nLC–MS). Analysis by DSA and LC-MS resulted in the identification of colorants as well as vehicles and additives while analysis by GC–MS mainly resulted in the identification of the non-colorant ingredients. Of the three techniques utilized, DSA provided the greatest number of ink compound identifications and in more samples. However, no single method detected all the components of the ink formulations. For profiling purposes, it is therefore necessary to utilize more than one method, such as the combination of DSA, LC-MS, and GC–MS presented in this study.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (52KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe conversion of glycerol in supercritical water (SCW) was studied at 510–550 °C and a pressure of 350 bars using both a bed of inert and non-porous ZrO2 particles (hydrothermal experiments), and a bed of a 1% Ru/ZrO2 catalyst. Experiments were conducted with a glycerol concentration of 5 wt% in a continuous isothermal fixed-bed reactor at a residence time between 2 and 10 s. Hydrothermolysis of glycerol formed water-soluble products such as acetaldehyde, acetic acid, hydroxyacetone and acrolein, and gases like H2, CO and CO2. The catalyst enhanced the formation of acetic acid, inhibited the formation of acrolein, and promoted gasification of the glycerol decomposition products. Hydrogen and carbon oxides were the main gases produced in the catalytic experiments, with minor amounts of methane and ethylene. Complete glycerol conversion was achieved at a residence time of 8.5 s at 510 °C, and at around 5 s at 550 °C with the 1 wt% Ru/ZrO2 catalyst. The catalyst was not active enough to achieve complete gasification since high yields of primary products like acetic acid and acetaldehyde were still present. Carbon balances were between 80 and 60% in the catalytic experiments, decreasing continuously as the residence time was increased. This was attributed partially to the formation of methanol and acetaldehyde, which were not recovered and analyzed efficiently in our set-up, but also to the formation of carbon deposits. Carbon deposition was not observed on the catalyst particles but on the surface of the inert zirconia particles, especially at high residence time. This was related to the higher concentration of acetic acid and other acidic species in the catalytic experiments, which may polymerize to form tar-like carbon precursors. Because of carbon deposition, hydrogen yields were significantly lower than expected; for instance at 550 °C the hydrogen yield potential was only 50% of the stoichiometric value.
AbstractThe corrosion behavior of aluminum alloy 2024-T3 was studied in 3.5% NaCl solution with two fluorescence quinoline compounds named 8-hydroxy-quinoline(8HQ) and 8-hydroxy-quinoline-5-sulfonic acid(HQS). The open circuit potential(OCP) test result indicates that both compounds change the alloy corrosion potential by adsorbing on the electrode surface. Polarization measurements show that 8HQ is a mixed type inhibitor by blocking the active sites of the metal surface, while HQS is a corrosion accelerator by activating the cathodic reaction. Changes of the impedance parameters in the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy(EIS) are related to the adsorption of 8HQ on the metal surface, which leads to the formation of a protective layer. The impedance diagram in the solution with HQS is similar to the one without additional organic compounds. The morphology and composition of the protective layer were studied by using SEM/EDS. The result confirms the function of the additions that the effect of 8HQ is due to the insoluble aluminum chelate, Al(HQ)3, to prevent adsorption of chloride ion, while the effect of HQS is to break down the oxide film.
AbstractA nano-structured hybrid compound was fabricated with excellent corrosion inhibitor encapsulating capacity and the ability of controlled delivery of benzotriazole (BTA) for simultaneous enhancement of the hydrophobic property and corrosion resistance of epoxy coatings. The Ce-metal organic frameworks (Ce-MOF) were synthesized and served as nanocontainers, tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) was further added to form a film to wrap Ce-metal organic frameworks. The addition of benzotriazole into nanocontainers endowed coating system with excellent anti-corrosion performance. The novelty lies in that the tetraethyl orthosilicate membrane would break and produce pores to release benzotriazole uniformly under acid condition, which was a pH-controlled self-healing process through polymer coatings providing an effective release of corrosion inhibitor. The fabricated hybrid compounds were comprehensively characterized with Fourier Transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), Ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy (UV-vis), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) was performed to characterize the corrosion behavior of various composite coatings. Results indicated that the 3 wt.%Ce-metal organic frameworks incorporated into the epoxy coatings showed the most excellent anti-corrosion property.
AbstractThe synergism of imidazole (IMZ) and poly(ethylene glycol) 600 (PEG) for zinc corrosion inhibition in 3 mol L−1 KOH solution was investigated using a combination of electrochemical and gravimetric methods, and the surface morphology of the zinc was observed by scanning electron microscopy. It is found that there is a synergistic effect between IMZ and PEG for the zinc corrosion inhibition. The difference in molecular structure, ring for IMZ and chain for PEG, and in binding atoms with zinc, nitrogen in IMZ and oxygen in PEG, contributes to this synergistic effect. IMZ inhibits zinc corrosion by mainly depressing the anodic reaction, whereas PEG by depressing the cathodic reaction. The storage performance of the zinc–manganese dioxide batteries using IMZ and/or PEG as inhibitors was determined by discharge test, with a comparison of the battery using mercury as the inhibitor. The battery containing 0.05% IMZ + 0.05% PEG exhibits better performance than the mercury-containing battery, especially when discharged at high rate.Highlights► An kind of environmentally benign organic composite additives is used firstly. ► The corrosion of zinc is inhibited used the organic compound as additive. ► The rate performance of the battery used the organic compound as additive is improved. ► The synergism of composite additives for zinc corrosion inhibition is investigated.
AbstractA novel CQDs/TiO2 hierarchical structure with enhanced photocatalytic properties was achieved by uniformly decorating urchin-like and yolk-shell TiO2 microspheres (UYTMs) with carbon quantum dots (CQDs) through an environmentally friendly hydrothermal process. The CQDs were firstly synthesized by the electrochemical method, and the TEM, Raman and PL characterizations strongly indicated that the as-prepared CQDs exhibited good dispersion, high crystallinity and unique up-conversion properties. The UYTMs synthesized by a NaOH-assisted hydrothermal process showed stable 3D hierarchical structure and large surface area, which was beneficial for light absorption and contacting with contamination. The good combination of CQDs and UYTMs was further successfully achieved during the hydrothermal process, and demonstrated by a series of tests. The photocatalytic experiments suggested that the CQDs/UYTMs exhibited better photocatalytic activities than the pure UYTMs and P25 under both visible and UV light irradiation. The CQDs/UYTMs combining with 6 wt% of CQDs showed the best photocatalytic efficiency, while excessive CQDs tended to inhibit the photocatalytic activity. According to the results and discussions, a possible mechanism in improving the photocatalytic efficiency of the CQDs/UYTMs is significantly proposed. The up-conversion property of CQDs can broaden the absorption spectrum of CQDs/UYTMs to the visible light. Moreover, the CQDs, as the electron reservoirs, are efficient to separate the electrons and holes, leading to an improved photocatalytic activity of CQDs/UYTMs.
Highlights•We tested the stability of Linde Type A zeolites in low pH wastewaters.•We examined changes in crystal structure and chemical composition after exposure.•We observed degradation in wastewater brine, and individual acid solutions.•Rapid degradation occurs at pH < 2 in all acids tested.•Dihydrogen phosphate anion catalyzes AlO and SiO bond hydrolysis at high pH.AbstractOn the International Space Station (ISS) there are low pH, urine containing wastewaters that need to be recycled. We evaluated the effects of synthetic ISS wastewater on Linde Type A (LTA) zeolites to assess their applicability in membrane separations to produce potable water. Specifically, we studied the impact of the four acid-producing components found in the wastewater: chromium(VI) oxide, potassium phosphate monobasic, sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate and sulfuric acid. We characterized effects of the acids on crystal structure, bonding, surface morphology and solid phase composition of the LTA zeolites. After 24 h of exposure to synthetic wastewater brine (pH 1.94), the zeolites sustained some damage with extensive structural degradation occurring after 128 h. The crystal structure of the LTA particles completely degraded in all acid-type solutions with a pH below 1 and in phosphate solutions with a pH below 5. The structural degradation resulted from the removal of aluminum from the zeolite framework. Additionally, we observed that phosphate caused changes in bonding of the zeolite, through removal of silicon from the framework and formation of aluminum phosphate precipitates. Ultimately, we found that the presence of acidic anions (specifically dihydrogen phosphate anions that catalyzed aluminum and silicon removal), rather than pH, was the most significant factor causing degradation of LTA in dihydrogen phosphate-containing solutions. Our results indicate that Linde Type A zeolites are inappropriate for use with low-pH, dihydrogen phosphate containing solutions.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractHere we report the elemental and isotopic compositions of the insoluble organic material (IOM) isolated from several previously unanalyzed meteorites, as well as the reanalyses of H isotopic compositions of some previously measured samples (Alexander et al., 2007). The IOM in ordinary chondrites (OCs) has very large D enrichments that increase with increasing metamorphism and decreasing H/C, the most extreme δD value measured being almost 12,000‰. We propose that such large isotopic fractionations could be produced in the OC parent bodies through the loss of isotopically very light H2 generated when Fe was oxidized by water at low temperatures (<200 °C). We suggest that similar isotopic fractionations were not generated in the IOM of CV and CO chondrites with similar metamorphic grades and IOM H/C ratios because proportionately less water was consumed during metamorphism, and the remaining water buffered the H isotopic composition of the IOM even a H was being lost from it.Hydrogen would also have been generated during the alteration of CI, CM and CR carbonaceous chondrites. The IOM in these meteorites exhibit a considerable range in isotopic compositions, but all are enriched in D, as well as 15N, relative to terrestrial values. We explore whether these enrichments could also have been produced by the loss of H2, but conclude that the most isotopically anomalous IOM compositions in meteorites from these groups are probably closest to their primordial values. The less isotopically anomalous IOM has probably been modified by parent body processes. The response of IOM to these processes was complex and varied, presumably reflecting differences in conditions within and between parent bodies.The D enrichments associated with H2 generation, along with exchange between D-rich IOM and water in the parent bodies, means that it is unlikely that any chondrites retain the primordial H isotopic composition of the water ice that they accreted. The H isotopic compositions of the most water-rich chondrites, the CMs and CIs, are probably the least modified and their compositions (δD ⩽ −25‰) suggest that their water did not form at large radial distances from the Sun where ice is predicted to be very D-rich. Yet models to explain the O isotopic composition of inner Solar System bodies require that large amounts of ice were transported from the outer to the inner Solar System.
AbstractThe microstructural features at different scales and the chemical composition of nickel coatings were studied in link with deposition parameters in direct-current and pulsed modes. Complementary characterization tools were used, allowing a scale relationship to be established between the nodule sizes, the sizes of coherent scattering regions and the grain sizes. The influence of deposition conditions on crystallographic texture and nodule size was formalized by maps versus pulsed current density (jp) and duty cycle (γ). The analysis of these maps offers the opportunity to demonstrate that the decrease in grain size is dependent on texture formation in relation with nucleation and growth processes. The chemical contamination, especially by light elements, seems to be the main factor linking deposition parameters and microstructure (texture and grain size).Highlights► In additive-free sulphamate bath, grain refinement is obtained by decreasing pulsed current density. ► Relations are found between sizes of grains, surface nodules and coherent scattering regions. ► Correlations between grain size, crystallographic texture and chemical contamination are discussed.
AbstractCorrosion inhibition of carbon steel in hydrochloric acid solution was inspected using newly Benzylidene-aniline derivatives namely: (E)-N(2-Chlorobenzylidene)-2-Fluorobenzenamine (NCF) and (E)-N(2-Chlorobenzylidene)-3-Chloro-2-Methylbenzenamine (NCCM), by potentiodynamic polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) techniques. The experimental results showed that both NCF and NCCM are good inhibitors for carbon steel in 1 M HCl. The inhibition efficiency increases with inhibitors concentration rise, reaching a value up to 89.72% at 10−3 M for the inhibitor NCF. Electrochemical impedance data show a frequency distribution of the capacitance, simulated as constant phase element (CPE). Polarization curves study revealed that both inhibitors are mixed type. The adsorption on the carbon steel surface follows Langmuir isotherm model with negative values of ΔGads0<math><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">Δ</mi><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">G</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="italic" is="true">ads</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">0</mn></mrow></msubsup></mrow></math>. Thermodynamics data for the adsorption process are calculated and discussed. The effect of molecular structure on inhibition efficiency was investigated by quantum chemical calculations using density function theory (DFT). Furthermore, Monte Carlo simulation technique incorporating molecular mechanics and molecular dynamic was applied to search for the best configurationally space for (NCCM or NCF)/100H2O/α-Fe2O3 (1 1 1) systems. The results indicate that the adsorption energy of NCF was greater than NCCM which is in accordance with the experimentally determined inhibition efficiency.
AbstractA technology for obtaining the zinc phosphate coating on an AZ91D magnesium alloy was investigated. The main ingredients in the phosphating bath were H3PO4, ZnO and NaF. This coating has typical phosphate microstructure, and the compositions in this coating analyzed by XRD are Zn3(PO4)2·4H2O, Zn, AlPO4 and MgZn2(PO4)2. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) has shown that very fine zinc particles surrounded phosphate crystals and filled in the interstice of the insoluble phosphate. Salt spray tests have indicated that the zinc phosphate coating has better corrosion resistance due to the presence of crystalline zinc in the coating. The zinc phosphate coating was used as the base layer for further paint. Salt spray showed that the paint plus phosphate coating had good corrosion resistance. The adhesion of paint on the zinc phosphate coating was better than that of paint on chromate conversion coating due to the microporous structure of the phosphate coating.
AbstractMagnesium surface segregation and oxidation were investigated in Al–Mg alloys with a surface texture characterized by branched and dendritic disordered features of low Mg concentration having a lateral 2-D fractal dimension DB≈1.77. Phase separation of areas with high (∼38% at.) and low (∼14% at.) Mg content allows direct observation of distinct differences in Mg surface segregation and oxidation across disordered phase boundaries. Nanometer scale lateral observation of these phenomena is feasible due to the nanometer spot size (∼15–20 nm) of the electron beam. Preferential surface oxidation, which is manifest even up to temperatures close to the melting point of Al and Mg, is shown to be strongly correlated laterally with the Mg content.
Highlights•Chlorine decay in home-heating scenarios was modeled.•pH and temperature effects were taken into consideration.•Stochastic differential evolution method was applied for parameter searching.•Two-site mechanistic model with interpretable parameters were found the best to fit the data.AbstractA general framework for modeling the bulk chlorine decay that accommodates effects of pH, temperature in water distribution system and in-home heating profiles is developed. With a single set of readily interpreted parameters, and various fictive concentrations of reactive constituents in the water, chlorine decay for the different water systems could be simultaneously modeled. Differential Evolution is employed to estimate the parameters stochastically. By using Bayesian Information Criterion, it is shown that a model consisting of two reactive species is preferred over models that consist of one or three reactive species. The flexibility and power of the framework is demonstrated with a case study of both types of effects.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (189KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe acid hydrolysis of lignocellulosic materials for obtaining xylose solutions and the utilization of hydrolysates for making culture media for xylitol production are reviewed. Strategies for enhancing bioconversion of hydrolysates, including microorganism adaptation and physico-chemical processing of hydrolysates, are discussed. The effects caused by other influential factors (such as type and concentration of inhibitors, degree of hydrolysate concentration, cell concentration, pH, available oxygen and media supplementation) are also considered.
AbstractPure monoclinic zirconia nanopowders were synthesized via a simple, fast and low cost method; polyacrylamide gel method. Also, the effect of initial salt precursor on thermal behavior of gel network and structure of the synthesized nanoparticles was studied with thermogravimetric and differential thermal analysis (TG-DTA), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis. The XRD results showed that the presence of nitrate ions not only retarded the crystallization, but also delayed the tetragonal to monoclinic phase transformation of zirconia nanoparticles which resulted in smaller particle sizes in comparison with the chloride samples. However, TG-DTA analysis confirmed accelerator role of nitrate ions on degradation of polymeric network. Thus, it was expected that zirconia nanopowders synthesized by nitrate samples have bigger sizes than the chloride base powders. Therefore, the presence of nitrate ions affects the synthesized nanoparticle size via two different mechanisms: the retarded crystallization and polymeric network degradation. But, TEM images revealed that the controlling mechanism is the former one.
Highlights•We fabricated Ni–Ti–O nanotubes (NTs) with different size on NiTi alloy through varying anodization voltages.•Worse corrosion resistance and more Ni release are observed from large NTs.•Cytocompatibility of NiTi alloy is improved after anodization especially for the sample anodized at 25 V.AbstractWe fabricate Ni–Ti–O NTs with different size on NiTi alloy through varying anodization voltages and evaluate their corrosion behavior, Ni release, and cytocompatibility. Our results show the NTs influence the corrosion behavior and cytocompatibility of NiTi alloy in a size-dependent manner. Worse corrosion resistance and more Ni release are observed from large NTs because of their high specific surface area. However, cytocompatibility is improved after anodization especially for the sample anodized at 25 V. These results thus indicate the release level of Ni ions from NiTi alloy is well tolerated by osteoblasts and surface nanotubular structure contribute to its cytocompatibility.
Highlights•Zn/AgPs composites coatings were formed for electrodeposition.•CTAB promotes occlusion of silver particles in the coating.•Zn/AgPs coatings present very good antibacterial activity.AbstractComposite coatings consisting of zinc and silver particles (Zn/AgPs) with antibacterial activity were prepared using an electrodeposition technique. The morphology, composition, and structure of the Zn/AgPs composite coatings were analyzed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) coupled with energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), inductively coupled plasma (ICP) spectrometry, and X-ray diffraction (XRD). The antibacterial properties of the coatings against the microorganisms Escherichia coli as a model Gram-negative bacterium and Staphylococcus aureus as a model Gram-positive bacterium were studied quantitatively and qualitatively. The results revealed that the dispersant cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) assisted in the formation of a stable suspension of Ag particles in the electrolytic bath for 24 h. Likewise, a high concentration of CTAB in the electrolytic bath promoted an increase in the number of Ag particles occluded in the Zn/AgPs coatings. The Zn/AgPs coatings that were obtained were compact, smooth, and shiny materials. Antimicrobial tests performed on the Zn/AgPs coatings revealed that the inhibition of bacterial growth after 30 min of contact time was between 91% and 98% when the AgPs content ranged from 4.3 to 14.0 mg cm−3.
Highlights•∼400 compounds analyzed upstream, downstream and at the effluent of 24 WWTP.•Sum concentrations dominated by household chemicals.•Risk driven by lower concentrated pesticides also during low flow conditions.•Only a few substances drive the total risk but lack of pharmaceutical toxicity data.•Predicted risk is correlated to observed effects on invertebrates (SPEAR index).AbstractMicropollutants enter surface waters through various pathways, of which wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) are a major source. The large diversity of micropollutants and their many modes of toxic action pose a challenge for assessing environmental risks. In this study, we investigated the potential impact of WWTPs on receiving ecosystems by describing concentration patterns of micropollutants, predicting acute risks for aquatic organisms and validating these results with macroinvertebrate biomonitoring data. Grab samples were taken upstream, downstream and at the effluent of 24 Swiss WWTPs during low flow conditions across independent catchments with different land uses. Using liquid chromatography high resolution tandem mass spectrometry, a comprehensive target screening of almost 400 organic substances, focusing mainly on pesticides and pharmaceuticals, was conducted at two time points, and complemented with the analysis of a priority mixture of 57 substances over eight time points. Acute toxic pressure was predicted using the risk assessment approach of the multi-substance potentially affected fraction, first applying concentration addition for substances with the same toxic mode of action and subsequently response addition for the calculation of the risk of the total mixture. This toxic pressure was compared to macroinvertebrate sensitivity to pesticides (SPEAR index) upstream and downstream of the WWTPs. The concentrations were, as expected, especially for pharmaceuticals and other household chemicals higher downstream than upstream, with the detection frequency of plant protection products upstream correlating with the fraction of arable land in the catchments. While the concentration sums downstream were clearly dominated by pharmaceuticals or other household chemicals, the acute toxic pressure was mainly driven by pesticides, often caused by the episodic occurrence of these compounds even during low flow conditions. In general, five single substances explained much of the total risk, with diclofenac, diazinon and clothianidin as the main drivers. Despite the low predicted acute risk of 0%–2.1% for affected species, a significant positive correlation with macroinvertebrate sensitivity to pesticides was observed. However, more effect data for pharmaceuticals and a better quantification of episodic pesticide pollution events are needed for a more comprehensive risk assessment.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (528KB)Download full-size image
AbstractIt is shown, hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) on iron occurs according to Volmer–Tafel mechanism in acidic aqueous chloride solutions with constant ionic strength. Relation between o-fluorophenylbiguanidine (o-FPBG) concentration and the kinetics and the nature of rate-determining step (rds) of hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) on iron in acidic chloride media with constant ionic strength has been established. Kinetic parameters of HER – dE/dlog ic, dE/dlog CH+, (dlog ic/dlog CH+)E, dη/dlog ic, dη/dlog CH+ and (∂log ic/∂log CH+)η – have been obtained at different concentrations of o-FPBG and compared with theoretical values appropriate to Volmer–Tafel mechanism. An increase in the o-FPBG concentration provokes sequential change of the rds in the hydrogen evolution reaction according to scheme: slow discharge – slow recombination – slow surface diffusion – slow discharge. It is proved that in the background solutions the slow discharge is followed by chemical recombination, but hydrogen diffusion rate through a steel membrane practically does not depend on the rds nature. Observed phenomena are interpreted from a position of existence of two adsorbed hydrogen forms – subsurface and raised above the surface – and difference in surface coverage by either of them.Highlights► Impedance spectroscopy method permits estimation of HER quick step nature. ► Possibility to manage nature of HER limiting-step is shown. ► Influence of additive concentration on nature of HER limiting-step is shown.
AbstractThe concrete does not possess sufficient resistance towards the permeation of aggressive ions when it is exposed to marine environment. When mineral admixtures are added, they impart certain impermeability to concrete by improving the physical structure by pozzolanic reaction. The reduction of concentration of OH− ion occurs either by consumption of free Ca(OH)2 by pozzolanic reaction or by dilution of cement alkalis due to replacement with mineral admixture. This causes a substantial reduction in the threshold value of chloride in mineral admixed concrete. In the present investigation, the corrosion resistance of rebar embedded in concrete made with Portland pozzolana cement (PPC), Portland slag cement (PSC) was studied for 847 days under macro cell corrosion condition with on comparison using ordinary Portland cement (OPC). Concrete having characteristic compressive strength of 20, 30 and 40 MPa were taken for evaluation. Potential and macro cell corrosion current were measured periodically and corrosion rates were determined by weight-loss method. This long term experiment revealed that in 20 MPa concrete, the corrosion rate of rebar in PPC and PSC concrete was 9 and 10 times lower than the rebar in OPC concrete: In the case of 30 MPa concrete, the corrosion rate of rebar in PPC and PSC concrete was 17 and 6 times lower respectively and in 40 MPa concrete it was 1.6–2.5 times less than the rebar in OPC concrete. The reduction of chloride ion content in blended cement concrete was varied from 1.4 to 3.1 times less than the OPC concrete among all the three concretes studied. Reduction of alkalinity in 20 MPa concrete at the rebar level in PPC and PSC concrete is 6 and 10 times lower, respectively, than in OPC concrete. In the case of 30 and 40 MPa concrete it was 2 and 1.6 times lower. The reduction in alkalinity did not accelerate the corrosion rate of rebar in blended cement concretes even in presence of higher amount of chlorides. The apparent chloride diffusion co-efficient of blended cement concretes was 1.6–1.8 times lower than that of OPC concrete. The combined effect of higher chloride complexing ability and reduction of chloride ion diffusivity of blended cement concretes made them to perform better in terms of corrosion protection of reinforcing steel.
AbstractThe present study has been conducted to investigate the interaction between corrosion and erosion processes and to quantify the synergism in realistic flow environments, including sudden pipe constrictions, sudden pipe expansions, and protrusions. Tests were conducted on AISI 1018 carbon steel using 1 wt% sodium chloride (NaCl) solution purged with CO2 as the corrosive media and silica sand as the erodent.The experiments were designed to understand whether erosion enhances corrosion or corrosion enhances erosion and to evaluate the contribution of the individual processes to the net synergism. It was observed that erosion enhances corrosion and corrosion enhances erosion, with each contributing to significant synergism; however, the dominant process was the effect of corrosion on erosion.
Highlights•NH2SO3H has the unique catalytic features and intrinsic zwitterionic property to catalyze degradation of bamboo fiber to produce HMF in biphasic system.•NaCl can be regarded as the continuous separation of HMF from water phase to organic phase.•Providing an approach for more effective utilization of bamboo fiber as potential feedstock.•Microwave assistance was high-efficiency.AbstractThe present work reports the conversion of lignocellulosic biomass into 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) catalyzed by solid organic acid catalyst with microwave heating in H2O/THF biphasic system. The 52.2% yield of HMF was achieved from the bamboo fiber degradation using NH2SO3H as catalyst at 180 °C for 40 min with 500 Hz microwave heating. The results showed that HMF yield increased significantly with adding NaCl, which not only could effectively increase the HMF distribution coefficient between organic phase and water phase, but also can separate HMF from water phase to organic phase continuously. Moreover, the catalytic system also showed effectiveness to convert other raw lignocellulosic variants to HMF, including softwood, hardwood, and cotton in the optimal biphasic system.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractFormic acid, isopropanol and hydrazine were investigated as reductants for the Pd-catalyzed hydrodechlorination of chlorobenzene in water at ambient temperature. The intention was to find alternatives to molecular hydrogen with high water solubilities. Formic acid was found to be as reactive as H2 under acidic and neutral conditions, but less reactive under alkaline conditions. The observed kinetics imply two pH-controlled reaction mechanisms (possibly H-atom and hydride transfer). H-consumers, such as chlorinated compounds, strongly stimulate the decomposition of formic acid. The half-life of 5 mg L−1 chlorobenzene in the presence of 1 mg L−1 Pd is about 2 min under optimal reaction conditions. Rh was found to be inactive in the formic acid driven hydrodechlorination. Isopropanol is less reactive by about five orders of magnitude than H2. Hydrazine is effective as a H-donor for the hydrodechlorination under alkaline conditions. However, the reaction is slower than with H2 by a factor of 30. From the technical and economic point of view, formic acid is a promising substitute for H2.
AbstractThe efficiency of hexamethylenetetramine (HMTA), as corrosion inhibitors for steel in de-aerated 0.3 M HCl, 0.1 M H2SO4 and 0.1 M H2SO4 + 1.0 × 10−3 M HCl solutions have been determined by electrochemical studies. It was found that the HMTA acts a good corrosion inhibitor for steel corrosion in acids solutions. Increase in inhibition efficiency with the increase of concentrations of HMTA shows that inhibition actions are due to adsorption on the steel surface and adsorption follows the Langmuir isotherm. From the adsorption isotherms values of equilibrium constant (Kads), values of free energies of adsorption (ΔGads°<math><mrow is="true"><mstyle mathvariant="normal" is="true"><mi is="true">Δ</mi></mstyle><msub is="true"><mi is="true">G</mi><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">ads</mtext></mrow></msub><mo is="true">°</mo></mrow></math>), were calculated. The effect of temperature on the corrosion behaviour in the presence of 1.0 × 10−1 M inhibitors was studied in the temperature range of 293–323 K. The inhibition efficiency of HMTA increased with increasing temperature up to 323 K. Activation energies (Ea*<math><mrow is="true"><msubsup is="true"><mi is="true">E</mi><mtext is="true">a</mtext><mo is="true">*</mo></msubsup></mrow></math>) were calculated from the obtained corrosion rates at different temperatures. Results obtained from both potentiodynamic polarisation and AC impedance measurements reveal that the compound is an effective inhibitor for the corrosion of steel and behave better in HCl than in H2SO4. Surface analyses were also carried out to establish the mechanism of corrosion inhibition of steel in acidic media.
Highlights•Pt, Ca, Zn and P have different effects on the catalytic performance of Cu-SSZ-13.•Deactivation by Pt affects N2 selectivity due to the high oxidation activity of Pt.•Deactivation by Zn and Ca affects NOx conversion but with no effect on selectivity.•Deactivation by Zn and Ca lead to pore blocking/filling, along with Cu clustering.•P completely suppresses the activity due to a combination of several mechanisms.AbstractThe chemical deactivation of Cu-SSZ-13 Ammonia Selective Catalytic Reduction (NH3-SCR) catalysts by Pt, Zn, Ca and P has been systematically investigated using a range of analytical techniques in order to study the influence on both the zeolitic framework and the active Cu2+ ions. The results obtained demonstrate a crucial impact of P, completely suppressing the catalytic activity as a result of different deactivation mechanisms (i.e. site blocking, disruption of the zeolite framework, CuO formation and else reduction in the number of isolated Cu2+ ions). A less pronounced drop in activity is found with Ca and Zn introduction, without an appreciable adverse effect on N2 selectivity, since the catalytic deactivation is mainly brought about through a pore blocking/filling mechanism. Additionally, a drop in the amount of Cu2+ ions with the formation of CuO species also takes place, observed to be most important for the Zn-deactivated materials. Deactivation by Pt strongly affects N2 selectivity, but without a significant influence on the active sites or the zeolitic structure, basically due to the high oxidation activity of the Pt species, which highly promote N2O and NO2 formation.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractThe 2D transition metal carbides (MXenes) are increasingly considered among of the most promising 2D nanomaterials, because of their unique properties such as hydrophilic nature, metallic conductivity, large surface-area-to-volume ratio, and active surface functionalities. This has led to their growing utilization in water/wastewater treatment and environmental remediation applications, including water purification membranes, heavy metal removal, capacitive deionization, and bactericidal agents. This account will focus on the key characteristic properties of MXenes such as high metallic/electronic conductivity, and catalytic activity, and their utilization for the electrocatalytic and photocatalytic-based environmental remediation applications. We will also address the key challenges facing MXene-based materials in aqueous media and possible mitigation routs.Graphical abstractCharacteristic electrocatalytic and photocatalytic properties of MXenes and their aqueous media applications.Download high-res image (197KB)Download full-size image
AbstractIn this study, the conjugate of PEG2000–stearic acid (PEG2000–SA) was used to prepare PEGylated solid lipid nanoparticles loading vinorelbine bitartrate (VB-pSLNs) by cold homogenization technique. The particle size and zeta potential of resulted VB-pSLNs ranged 180–250 nm and 0–10 mV, which were determined using a Zetasizer, respectively. Although the drug entrapment efficiency (EE) slightly decreased after the PEG modification of VB-SLNs, above 60 % EE could be reached. The drug release tests in vitro indicated the faster drug release from VB-pSLNs than that from VB-SLNs without PEG modification. To investigate the cellular uptake of VB-pSLNs, the chemical conjugate of octadecylamine-fluorescein isothiocynate (FITC-ODA) was synthesized, and was used as a fluorescence marker to incorporate into nanoparticles. The results from cellular uptake indicated that the phagocytosis of VB-pSLNs by RAW264.7 cells was inhibited effectively by the PEG modification of SLNs, while the uptake by cancer cells (MCF-7 and A549) could be improved significantly. The assay of anticancer activity in vitro demonstrated that the anticancer activity of VB was significantly enhanced by the encapsulation of SLNs and pSLNs due to the increased cellular internalization of drug. The results suggested that SLNs and pSLNs could be excellent carrier candidates to entrap VB for tumor chemotherapeutics.
Publisher SummaryThis chapter discusses biocatalytic processes. The microbial populations, working in the oil reservoir, influenced the final petroleum product. Indeed, those populations adapted to the reservoir environment under extreme conditions, such as pressure, salinity, temperature, etc. The isolation of such microorganisms from extreme environments as well as those from environments exposed to oil (via oil spills, oily wastewater treatment, etc.) has resulted in identification of biological catalysts, which could be used to remove heteroatoms or transform oil components to improve yields and quality of the oil as well as its refined products. Bacteria have evolved to scavenge carbon, sulfur, nitrogen, and metals present in crude oil over time, and such bacteria have served as the source of catalytic materials for oil bioprocessing applications. The understanding that these biological functionalities are a result of evolutionary pressures, serves as inspiration for development of new and emerging technologies. Five main areas of bioprocessing research have emerged in the search for commercial value addition: (1) microbial enhanced oil recovery (MEOR), (2) biodesulfurization, (3) biodenitrogenation, (4) viscosity reduction/biocracking, and (5) biodemetallization.
Highlights•In situ strategy integrates the formation of both nanoparticles and membrane.•Four in situ preparation techniques are designed for novel nano-enhanced membrane.•In situ formed nanoparticles disperse in membrane matrix or on membrane surface.•The properties of membrane for water treatment are improved with in situ strategy.•Technical feature for in situ strategy should be considered for commercialization.AbstractPolymeric membranes enhanced by nanoparticles have received great attention over the past decade due to their abilities to meet the growing demand in addressing the global scarcity and pollution of water resources. Many efforts have been devoted to improve the membrane performance using this strategy, and to develop novel applications via molecular-level design for nanoparticle-polymer systems. Recent advances in applying in situ preparative techniques in polymeric membrane can potentially lead to new classes of nano-enhanced membranes for advanced water purification. Considering the increasing interest in this field related to the potential for controlling the dispersion and stability of nanoparticles, we review the progress of in situ preparative techniques for water purification. Categories of in situ preparative techniques are elaborated in detail, primarily focusing on the mechanism of the sol-gel process and in situ chemical reduction, which are considered as the most common applications of in situ preparative techniques. We also describe the effect of binding styles of nanoparticles (in situ formation in the membrane matrix or on the membrane surface) on the structure-property relationship in nano-enhanced membranes, discussing recent applications of in situ formed metal nanoparticles, metal oxide nanoparticles, polymeric nanoparticles and other nanoparticles in water treatment. Finally, we suggest the antifouling mechanisms of in situ preparative techniques and give a further perspective for the next-generation nano-enhanced membranes. Further development of nano-enhanced membranes must go hand in hand with strict regulations for drinking water consumption and environmental safety.Graphic abstractIn situ preparative technique, which integrates the formation of both nanoparticle and membrane, can be designed and applied with various styles for water treatment.Download high-res image (227KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe influence of salt deposits on the atmospheric corrosion of high purity Al (99.999%) was studied in the laboratory. Four chloride and sulfate-containing salts, NaCl, Na2SO4, AlCl3 · 6H2O and MgCl2 · 6H2O were investigated. The samples were exposed to purified humid air with careful control of the relative humidity (95%), temperature (22.0 °C), and air flow. The concentration of CO2 was 350 ppm or <1 ppm and the exposure time was four weeks. Under the experimental conditions all four salts formed aqueous solutions on the metal surface. Mass gain and metal loss results are reported. The corroded surfaces were studied by ESEM, OM, AES and FEG/SEM equipped with EDX. The corrosion products were analyzed by gravimetry, IC and grazing incidence XRD. In the absence of CO2, the corrosivity of the chloride salts studied increases in the order MgCl2 · 6H2O < AlCl3 · 6H2O < NaCl. Sodium chloride is very corrosive in this environment because the sodium ion supports the development of high pH in the cathodic areas, resulting in alkaline dissolution of the alumina passive film and rapid general corrosion. The low corrosivity of MgCl2 · 6H2O is explained by the inability of Mg2+ to support high pH values in the cathodic areas. In the presence of carbon dioxide, the corrosion induced by the salts studied exhibit similar rates. Carbon dioxide strongly inhibits aluminum corrosion in the presence of AlCl3 · 6H2O and especially, NaCl, while it is slightly corrosive in the presence of MgCl2 · 6H2O. The corrosion effects of CO2 are explained in terms of its acidic properties and by the precipitation of carbonates. In the absence of CO2, Na2SO4 is less corrosive than NaCl. This is explained by the lower solubility of aluminum hydroxy sulfates in comparison to the chlorides. The average corrosion rate in the presence of CO2 is the same for both salts. The main difference is that sulfate is less efficient than chloride in causing pitting of aluminum in neutral or acidic media.
AbstractVisible light photoactive AgCl/polypyrrole (PPy) composites were prepared via the reaction between excessive Ag+ and Cl− ions in the presence of PPy. The AgCl/PPy composites were systematically characterized using Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, Raman spectra, X-ray diffraction (XRD), Scanning electron microscope (SEM), Transmission electron microscope (TEM) and Thermal gravity analysis (TGA). It was found that face-centered cubic AgCl nanocrystallite and 0.2 wt% PPy component existed in the composite and spherical AgCl/PPy nanoparticles were in the range of 200–600 nm. The AgCl/PPy composites showed higher visible light-driven photocatalytic activity and stability than that of AgCl. A photoreduction mechanism was postulated for AgCl/PPy photocatalyst on dye methyl orange (MO). The used AgCl/PPy photocatalyst was facilely regenerated by an oxidation process in aqueous FeCl3 solution.Graphical abstractAgCl/PPy composite exhibits improved photocatalytic performance and high stability under visible light.Download full-size imageHighlights► AgCl/(PPy) nanocomposites as visible light driven photocatalyst. ► Composites exhibited high visible light-driven photocatalytic activity and stability. ► Photocatalytic process on MO followed photoreduction mechanisms. ► Used photocatalyst can be regenerated in aqueous FeCl3 solution.
AbstractIn the process of produce carbon materials by pyrolyzing polycarbodiimide (PCDI), the starting PCDI is preliminarily stabilized by a low temperature treatment in an oxidative atmosphere. In this study, the relation between the carbonization behavior of PCDI films and the stabilization conditions was investigated with the aim of optimizing stabilization conditions. The extent of stabilization was evaluated from the changes in tensile modulus during stabilization and density. A two stage stabilization was proposed to obtain sufficient thermal stability without causing fusion of the films. From the viewpoint of minimizing weight loss and volume reduction and maintaining the shape of the starting material during carbonization, PCDI films required a stabilization giving densities in the region from ca 1.22 to 1.26 g cm−3. During carbonization, a large weight loss took place at ca 480°C, and the decomposition at this temperature favored the crystallite growth at higher carbonization temperatures. Thus, with increasing density of the stabilized film beyond 1.26 g cm−3, more intensive decomposition took place, and the crystallite size and the density of the carbonized films increased although the weight loss increased.
AbstractPolymers and polymer composites are susceptible to premature failure due to the formation of cracks and microcracks during their service time. Evolution of cracks and microcracks could induce catastrophic material failure. Therefore, the detection/diagnostics and effective repair of cracks and microcracks are vital for ensuring the performance reliability, cost effectiveness and safety for polymer structures. Cracks and microcracks, however, are difficult to detect and often repair processes are complex. Biologically inspired self-healing polymer systems with inherent ability to repair damage have the potential to autonomically repair cracks and microcracks. This article is a review on the latest developments on the topics of cracks and microcracks initiation and propagation in polymer structures and it discusses the current techniques for detection and observation. Furthermore, cracks and microcrack repair through bio-mimetic self-healing techniques is discussed along with surface active protection. A separate section is dedicated to fracture analysis and discusses in details fracture mechanics and formation.
AbstractA novel core/shell organic nanoparticles, anthracene/poly-acrylamide (AN/PAM), has been prepared successfully. Based on the fluorescence quenching of AN/PAM nanoparticles by Cr(VI), a method for the selective determination of Cr(VI), without separation of Cr(VI) in water, was developed. Furthermore, the reaction mechanism between nano-AN/PAM and Cr(VI) was also discussed. The synthesis and reaction conditions were investigated in detail. The assay is characterized by short reaction time, very few interference stable fluorescence signals, simple instruments and sensitivity. Under optical experimental conditions, a limit of detection of 0.02 μg/ml was achieved. The calibration curve was linear over the concentration range 0.04–2.00 μg/ml with a correlation coefficient of 0.9924. The proposed method has been applied to the selective quantification of Cr(VI) in synthetic samples and waste-water samples with the satisfactory results.
Highlights•ZVI-activated persulfate oxidation could efficiently degrade bentazon in water.•Both ZVI concentration and PS dose had an inflection point in ZVI-PS system.•Low bentazon concentration, low pH and high temperature favored the reaction.•Different coexisting ions exhibited different effects.•Most of bentazon transformed to intermediate products instead of carbon dioxide.AbstractBentazon (BTZ) in water, a broadly used herbicide in agriculture, is toxic to human beings and has a negative impact on ecosystem. In this study, zero-valent iron (ZVI) activation of persulfate (PS) for the oxidation of BTZ was investigated. More active sulfate radicals produced from the system were principally responsible for the BTZ degradation. The BTZ removal well followed a pseudo-first-order (PFO) kinetics pattern. Key factors affecting the treatment were tested, including ZVI concentration, PS dose, initial BTZ concentration, initial solution pH, temperature and common coexisting ions in water. Under the optimal ZVI (4.477 mM) and PS (0.262 mM) concentrations, 0.021 mM BTZ was totally removed at an initial pH ⩽ 7.Generally, lower BTZ concentration, lower pH and higher temperature favored the treatment. Different coexisting ions exhibited different effects. Al3+, Cl− and NO3− improved the treatment; NH4+, Ca2+, and Mg2+ did not significantly influence the BTZ removal; and, Mn2+, Cu2+, CO32−, HCO3−, PO43−, HPO42− and H2PO4− inhibited the BTZ degradation. Most of BTZ were not mineralized, and instead degraded into three major degradation products including 2,1,3-benzothiadiazin-4(3H)-one-2,2-dioxide (P1, C7H6N2O3S), 2-aminobenzoic acid (anthranilic acid) (P3, C7H7NO2), and 2-amino-2-sulfobenzoic acid (P5, C7H7NO5S). This study demonstrates that ZVI/PS is a viable alternative for controlling BTZ-induced water pollution.
AbstractA simple sol-gel technique for the preparation of methyl–modified silica coatings for the protection of the external surface of copper has been used in this study. Tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS) has been used as a precursor to prepare nanosilica coatings on the surface of copper. The methyl–modified silica sols were obtained by mixing of 3% SiO2 sol solution with trimethylchlorosilane (TMCS) or hexamethyldisilozane (HMDS) as basic materials. For comparison, the copper substrates were also coated with commercial polymers (Paraloid B 72, Plexisol P 550-40 and polyvinyl butyral (PVB)). The surface morphology changes of uncoated and coated specimens were investigated by atomic force microscopy (AFM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The hydrophobicity of surfaces and photochemical ageing effects were evaluated by contact angle measurements. Potentiodynamic measurements were obtained in order to compare corrosion parameters of the coatings.
AbstractThe action of some organic compounds from the group of surfactants and polyethylene glycols (PEGs) on zinc corrosion in alkaline media was studied. The investigations were carried out by use of electrochemical and nonelectrochemical methods. The effectiveness of the inhibitors was compared and it was found that the PEG of average molar weight 400 (PEG400) was especially effective. The assumption has been advanced that zinc corrodes electrochemically in the first stage of exposition, but the chemical corrosion prevails after a longer time.
AbstractDensities of pure piperidine (CAS No.: 110-89-4) and of its mixtures with water have been measured over the whole range of compositions at temperatures from 283.15 K to 347.15 K using Anton Paar™ digital vibrating tube densimeter. The density of this system has been found increasing with mass fraction of water. Excess molar volumes have been calculated using the measured experimental densities and correlated using the Redlich–Kister equation. Redlich–Kister equation parameters have been adjusted on experimental data. In addition, partial molar volumes and partial excess molar volumes at infinite dilution have been calculated for each component.
Highlights•Watermelon rind extracts inhibited mild steel corrosion in HCl and H2SO4 solutions.•The adsorption of WMRE follow Temkin isotherm model.•The extracts behave as a mixed-type inhibitor in both media.•Results from all the methods are in reasonable agreement.•WMRE is a better inhibitor in HCl than in H2SO4 solution.AbstractElectrochemical techniques were used to investigate the efficacy of watermelon rind extract (WMRE) as corrosion inhibitor for mild steel in HCl and H2SO4 solutions. The inhibition efficiency increased as the concentration of the extract increases. Potentiodynamic polarization results indicate that WMRE act as a mixed-type inhibitor. The values of effective capacitance obtained by utilizing the impedance parameters in both acidic media are in the range of double layer capacitance. Corrosion inhibition effect of WMRE can be attributed to the adsorption of constituents of WMRE onto the mild steel surface which can be approximated by Temkin adsorption isotherm model.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractBioelectrochemical systems (BES) and/or microbial fuel cell (MFC) mass transport and associated over-potential limitations are affected by flow regimes, which may simultaneously increase the power and pollution treatment capacities. Two electrodes with helical flow channels were compared in the same tubular MFC reactor. 1). A machined monolithic microporous conductive carbon (MMCC). 2). A layered carbon veil with spoked ABS former (LVSF); both presented helical flow channel. Anode performances were compared when subject to temperature, substrate concentration and flow rate variations. The MMCC maximum power increased from 2.9 ± 0.3 to 7.6 ± 0.7 mW with influent acetate concentration, from 1 to 10 mM (with 2 mL min−1), but decreased power to 5.5 ± 0.5 mW at 40 mM, implicated localized pH/buffering. Flow rate (0.1 to 7.5 mL min−1) effects were relatively small but an increase was evident from batch to continuous operation at 0.1 mL min−1. The LVSF configuration showed improved performance in power as the flow rate increased, indicating that flow pattern affects BES performance. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) modelling showed less uniform flow with the LVSF. Thus flow regime driven mass transfer improves the power output in continuously fed system operation. These results indicate that electrode configuration, flow regime and operating condition need consideration to optimize the bioelectrochemical reaction.Highlights► Bioelectrochemical system design and materials have large effects on performance. ► Comparing porous carbon anodes in changing operating conditions can inform design. ► A new carbon foam material in a microbial fuel cell (MFC) shows high performance. ► Flow channel details effect mass transfer and increased MFC power production. ► Helical anode designs led to 3–10 times higher volumetric power densities.
AbstractTunisia, located in a semi-arid zone, has limited water resources. The shortage of good water quality in particular at the south regions required a brackish water desalination to supply these regions with potable water. Zarzis desalination plant, working since 1999, has revealed difficulties related to the loss of membrane performances. In the aim to determine the reason of membrane fouling, foulant layer were analysed. The membrane autopsy has achieved by different methods, such as TOC (total organic carbon) measurement, SEM (scanning electron microscopy), AFM (atomic force microscopy), FTIR (fourier transform infrared spectroscopy) analysis, diffraction by X-ray. Results show that the foulant layer composed mostly of SiO2, clay, organic matter (polysaccharide, protein), CaSiO3, Fe3O4, AlPO4, and CaSO4. The characteristics bonds obtained by IR indicate the presence of polysaccharides and proteins that constitute a source for further microbiological growth; this is the problem of biofouling. The metallic elements results of corroded stainless steel and internal coating of cartridges filter that are damaged by the silica particle rejected by sand filters. The scale of CaSO4 and CaSiO3 deposition is owing to the bad antiscaling efficiency. The results are presented and discussed in the light of new trends in material.
Highlights•Hybrid ceramics with high surface area (100–550 m2/g) and hierarchical porosity.•Adjustable properties by pyrolysis temperature and polysiloxane composition.•In-situ formation of Ni nanoparticles (4–7 nm).•High CO2 conversion (52%) and CH4 selectivity (77%) for catalyst pyrolyzed at 400 °C.•Improved catalytic performance for hydrophobic ceramics with smaller Ni particles.AbstractNickel-containing hybrid ceramics were prepared by pyrolytic conversion from either methyl or methyl-phenyl polysiloxanes mixed with bistrimethoxysilylpropylamine (BisA) as a complexing agent and nickel salt. Materials with tailorable characteristics were generated by varying the pyrolysis temperature from 400 up to 600 °C in order to evaluate their applicability in the CO2 methanation. The materials were characterized by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms (BET-BJH), water and n-heptane adsorption, X-ray diffraction (XRD) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). In-situ X-ray diffraction analysis (in-situ XRD) was used to evaluate the Ni particle structure and size during a simulated catalytic reaction. Porous hybrid ceramics (ceramers) with high specific surface areas (100–550 m2 g−1), hydrophobic or hydrophilic surfaces and different Ni particle sizes (4–7 nm) were obtained by varying the pyrolysis temperature and polysiloxane composition. The pyrolytic conversion of polysiloxanes combined with the complexing amino-siloxane BisA not only permitted a good dispersion of the Ni nanoparticles but also enabled the formation of hierarchical porosity with micro-, meso- and macropores. Regarding the catalytic performance, ceramers prepared from methyl polysiloxane exhibited a more hydrophobic surface and improved catalytic performance compared to the ones prepared from methyl-phenyl polysiloxane. A negative effect on the catalytic performance of ceramers was observed with increasing pyrolysis temperatures, which led to an increase in Ni particle size (from 4 to 7 nm), and lower levels of conversion and selectivity. The ceramers pyrolyzed at 400 °C exhibited the best catalytic performance, showing selectivity up to ∼77% and good stability over a 10 h test, during which the Ni particle size was preserved.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (199KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•The concentration levels of gas-phase TFA were significantly higher in spring and summer than in fall and winter.•The PM2.5 concentration and temperature were important factors affecting the concentration of particulate-phase TFA.•gas-phase TFA can still be transformed to the particulate phase and increase the contribution of TFA to haze formation.AbstractTrifluoroacetic acid (TFA) was measured at an urban site in Beijing from April 2013 to April 2016 and examined its characteristics and particle/gas distributions. The average monthly atmospheric TFA concentration fluctuated significantly and presented marked seasonal variations. The concentration levels of gas-phase TFA were significantly higher in spring and summer than in fall and winter. The PM2.5 mass concentration and ambient temperature were important factors affecting the concentration of particulate-phase TFA. Hence, at higher PM2.5 concentrations and lower temperatures, atmospheric TFA tended to be enriched in particulate matter. Our findings suggest that the percentage of gas-phase TFA in Beijing is higher than that in the steady state; thus, gas-phase TFA can still be transformed to the particulate phase and increase the contribution of TFA to haze formation.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (120KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThis study presents an electrocatalytic method for the degradation of bisphenol A (BPA) in water based on a novel Ti-based PbO2–ionic liquids (ILs) electrode. The electrode showed a high stability and reusability due to the better electroconductivity and reusability of ILs. Besides, the influence factors on BPA degradation were investigated in detail, and under the optimal conditions the degradation efficiency of BPA could reach 100% within 150 min. What's more, over 75% chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal was achieved on PbO2–ILs(10%)/Ti electrode. The mechanism of the degradation reaction was proposed based on the results of high performance liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC/MS). It was deduced that hydroxyl radicals (OH) generated in the electrocatalytic process played a key role in oxidizing BPA to form CO2 and H2O, which could be determined by fluorescence methods. All these results illustrated that PbO2–ILs/Ti electrode was effective for pollutants degradation and had a great potential application.Highlights► A novel electrode constructed by electrodeposition PbO2 in ILs on Ti substrate for the degradation of BPA. ► ILs inhibited the formation of large crystallite and improved the electrode stability. ► Better BPA and COD removal efficiency were achieved under the optimal conditions. ► ·OH played a key role in the reaction by attacking BPA to form CO2 and H2O.
AbstractThe global increase of the environmental consciousness led to a rapid interest of the scientific community in the exploration of novel bio-based materials. To date several high-quality reviews on the topic of bio-based polymers in general and coatings in particular have been published. However their main focus has been on reporting different raw organic materials used, specific application fields or particular final products. Due to that approach the existing reviews nearly or completely fail in identifying and analysing the potential uniqueness of bio-based raw materials to implement new or better functions to polymeric coatings. The current review offers an overview of the peculiar effect of the bio-based raw component on different coating properties, a characteristic that we like to call the “bio-touch”. The review highlights the relation between the bio-based element and the property achieved. The aim is not to report all the approaches and advances existing, but to critically analyse the main and most successful approaches pointing out possible intrinsic weakness.Graphical abstractThe current review offers an overview of the peculiar effect of the bio-based raw component on different coating properties, a characteristic that we like to call the “bio-touch”. The review strongly stresses the relation between the bio- based element and the foreseen property achieved, but also points out intrinsic weaknesses of the approaches used.The added or improved properties analysed along the manuscript are schematized in Fig. 1.Download high-res image (87KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe present work reports a novel painting system for mild steels using electrodeposited silica (E-SiO2) film as the pretreatment layer. The electrodeposition is based on basic catalysis of sol–gel processes (hydrolysis and condensation reactions) of tetraethoxysilane by applying a negative potential. The highly porous E-SiO2 layer obtained ensures good adhesion to the topcoat. The painting system constructed on E-SiO2 pretreatment layer is superior in its corrosion performance to traditional phosphating process. It is believed that such environmentally friendly and low-cost pretreatment layer can be used to fabricate highly corrosion resistant painting system for a variety of structural metal substrates.Highlights► Electrodeposited SiO2 film is used as pretreatment layer for painting system. ► The new painting system exhibits good corrosion performance. ► Such type pre-treated layer shows wide applicability on various metals.
Highlights•A copper content of ∼0.6 wt% may be overaged when the quench-rate is not too rapid.•Crack arrest markings spacings could be related to the hydrogen diffusivity.•XPS showed that the oxide of AA7075 was slightly more hydrated than on AA7079.AbstractStress corrosion cracking (SCC) of two lower-copper Al–Zn–Mg–Cu alloys, AA7079 and AA7022 (0.6–0.9 wt% Cu), and a higher-copper AA7075 (1.5 wt% Cu) alloy are reported. In aqueous chloride, copper content of grain boundary precipitates is believed to be controlling, whereas in moist air it appears that the hydrogen diffusivity could be evident from the rate of crack growth between crack arrest markings. In moist air, the rate of hydrogen entry may control crack growth rates. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy showed that the oxide formed in ambient conditions (e.g. ∼50% RH) was more hydrated on the AA7075-T651 than AA7079-T651.
Highlights•Stainless-steel expanded meshes are used as flow fields in a passive DMFC.•The meshes with different strand widths and assembly patterns are evaluated.•Visualization methods are used to investigate the two-phase flow characteristics.•Optimal setup of the meshes helps improve the reactant and product managements.AbstractThe metal expanded mesh is an attractive alternative to be flow field plate of the direct methanol fuel cell (DMFC) for practical applications. This work investigates the structural effects of the stainless-steel expanded mesh used as a flow field in a passive DMFC. Three expanded meshes with different strand widths are tested at various methanol concentrations. Effects of its assembly diversity, in terms of two different mesh surfaces and orientations of the opening mesh, are also explored at both the anode and cathode. The influential mechanisms in the light of reactants and products management are analyzed by use of a visualization method. The mesh with a smaller strand width yields a better cell performance at a lower methanol concentration, which performs worse at a higher methanol concentration. Compared with the traditional perforated flow fields, the expanded mesh is preferred at lower methanol concentrations. The assembly mode combining BU at the anode and BL at the cathode is recommended. The visualization tests at both sides reveal the positive effects of above optimal configuration on the reactants and products management in a passive DMFC.
AbstractChemical burns continue to pose a variety of dilemmas to the clinician managing such cases. Assessment of burn depth is often difficult and the decision whether to excise the wound early is not always clear-cut. In this updated review, common agents are classified and the basic principles of management and specific recommendations are examined. The complications arising from exposure to these chemicals and the supportive measures needed during treatment are also described.
Highlights•Various hydrothermal processing techniques were reviewed exclusively for anaerobic digestion.•Impact of hydrothermal processing on various fractions was reviewed with particular reference to anaerobic digestion.•Process parameters of hydrothermal liquefaction, gasification, and carbonization were reviewed.•Techno-economic considerations of hydrothermal techniques and life cycle assessment were presented.•Inevitability of research on economic perspectives of hydrothermal processing pertinent to anaerobic digestion is debated.AbstractPrice hikes in conventional fuels coupled with sustainability concerns result into growing attraction towards lignocellulosic biomass conversion to biofuels. The hydrothermal pretreatment (HP) impact on structural characteristics of biomass and released inhibitory compounds linked to anaerobic digestion represent a knowledge gap and requires a critical review. In this review, HP chemistry, different hydrothermal processing techniques, inhibitory compounds production mechanism in the hydrolysate, and the impact of pretreatment parameters on biological conversion efficiency in products of biotechnological interest are discussed. Countercurrent flow-through hydrothermal reactor was found a better choice for high carbohydrate concentration in the hydrolysate. Anaerobic digestion is discussed in response to HP and morphological changes in biomass associated with lignin dissolution. Finally, literature previously published for techno-economic and environmental analysis pertinent to HP linked to anaerobic digestion process has been summarized and concluded that it requires much research for the decision makers.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (232KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•It matters where an alkoxysilane is attached to a BPA-Epoxide.•Attachment onto the secondary hydroxide group in the repeat unit appears to diminish the overall crosslink density.•The Alkoxylsilane modified at the amine position of the BPA Epoxide showed better corrosion resistance.AbstractBisphenol A (BPA) epoxy was modified with amine functionalized silane (ASE) and isocyanate functionalized silane (ISE), and the modified epoxides were blended with both tetraethyl orthosilicate oligomers (TEOS oligomers) and titanium dioxide (TiO2). These hybrid networks were characterized by solid state 29Si-NMR, contact angle, crosslink density, pull-off adhesions, and crosshatch adhesion. Corrosion resistance was examined with a salt spray test, a filiform test and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). Modified epoxides with addition of TEOS oligomer and TiO2 fillers showed improvement in mechanical properties. The broader degree of cross-linkage was observed in ISE based coatings. In contrast, ASE based coatings had a more uniform crosslink distribution and higher crosslink density. The addition of TiO2 fillers increase the percolation root of ISE epoxide, but was eliminated after blending with TEOS oligomer. With TEOS oligomer addition, crosslinked ISE showed complete condensation and high pull-off adhesion (153 lb/in2). The more homogeneous and higher crosslinked polymer matrix of ASE resulted in a higher diffusion resistance, and as a consequence exhibits good barrier protection under long term immersion conditions compared with the lower cross-linked ISE epoxide.
AbstractThe synthesized cationic surfactant N-(2-(2-mercaptoacetoxy) ethyl)-N,N-dimethyldodecan-1-aminium bromide (QSH) was used to prepare colloidal copper nanoparticles (CuNPs) in water through the chemical reduction method. The obtained copper nanoparticles were characterized by FTIR spectrum and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The corrosion performance was evaluated using potentiodynamic polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements in addition to the salt spray test. The results obtained from these methods were in good agreement. Results showed that the modified coating provide a good coverage and an additional corrosion protection of the carbon steel.
Highlights•α-Al2O3 and α-Al2O3/Cr2O3 tritium permeation barriers can be prepared by the metal organic decomposition (MOD) method.•The nanohardness and corrossion resistance of α-Al2O3 MOD coatings are improved by a Cr2O3 buffer.•An Al2O3 MOD single layer tends to perform lower deuterium permeability at higher temperature.AbstractFour kinds of well-crystallized tritium permeation barrier coatings, including γ-Al2O3, α-Al2O3, γ-Al2O3/Cr2O3 and α-Al2O3/Cr2O3, were prepared by the metal organic decomposition (MOD) method using a dipping technique. In this study, we concentrated on the preparation and properties of α-Al2O3 and α-Al2O3/Cr2O3 double-layer coatings. The results showed that the α-Al2O3 coating exhibited a pure phase structure, which was entirely and directly transformed from the γ-Al2O3 at an annealing temperature of 1000 °C, and no obvious substrate oxides were formed. An unannealed Cr2O3 MOD layer with a thickness of 0.8 μm featured higher crystallization and was taken as a buffer layer. However, the template effect of Cr2O3 was not obvious because the formation temperature of the α-Al2O3 did not decrease. The corrosion resistance (1.068 × 10−7 A/cm2) and nanohardness (18.49 GPa) of the α-Al2O3/Cr2O3 double-layer coating improved compared to those of γ-Al2O3, α-Al2O3, and γ-Al2O3/Cr2O3 coatings. In contrast, the deuterium permeation test showed that the α-Al2O3 MOD coating had the lowest deuterium ion current at temperatures of 400 ˜ 600 °C of the films considered in this study, demonstrating better resistance to deuterium permeation. Relevant mechanisms and explanations are discussed in detail.
Highlights•New core-shell pigments based on silica fume covered with phosphates were prepared.•Anticorrosive paints were applied on rebars for protection from sulfate attack.•The rebar coatings did not affect the bond strength between rebar and concrete.•Electrochemical tests showed good protection for paints with core-shell pigments.•Paints containing silica fume showed less protection than core-shell pigments.AbstractSulfate exposure is considered high aggressive medium to reinforced concrete, therefore high efficient protection ways are needed to protect the steel rebars.In this work, new cheap eco-friendly anticorrosive pigments based on zinc, strontium, zinc.strontium phosphate/silica fume were prepared. These pigments contain thin shell of phosphates (10–20%) precipitated on silica fume waste (80–90%) using core-shell technique. These pigments were incorporated in anticorrosive paints to protect steel rebars from the sulfate ions effect in concrete. Tests were conducted to examine their corrosion protection efficiency and effect on the physical properties of concrete. Tests include (a) half-cell potential and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy to determine the corrosion protection of the coatings against corrosion and (b) bond strength between the coated rebar and concrete. The results showed that, the prepared core-shell pigments provided good corrosion protection to the rebars without affecting the bond between the rebar and concrete cover.Graphical abstractPhotos of uncoated and coated rebars in concrete samples after 28 days immersion in 5% MgSO4.Download high-res image (147KB)Download full-size image
AbstractLaboratory investigations were performed in order to assess the effectiveness and the inhibition mechanism of an amino alcohol-based inhibitor currently used as admixture to prevent corrosion of steel in concrete. The investigation was performed in the presence of chloride ions, using solutions simulating the concrete interstitial solution. Electrochemical measurements allowed to conclude that, an inhibitor film is formed on the surface hindering the anodic activity. Furthermore, the analytical investigation through the use of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) shows that the inhibitor film is able to complex with the chloride ion.
AbstractThe source of moisture in flue gas emissions from coal-fired power plant and the impact of high humidity flue gas on the environment were reviewed. Flue gas moisture from fired power plant mainly comes from the release of hydrogen in coal combustion process and water carried by flue gas from wet flue gas desulfurization system. High humidity flue gas emission increases the overall humidity in the lower atmosphere, which is not conducive to the pollutants diffusion in low atmosphere and even affect the local climate around the plant; high humidity flue gas emission promotes the secondary transformation of air pollutants as well, accelerating the hygroscopic aerosol growth, thus aerosol optical characteristics is changed, and atmospheric visibility reduces. As for the power plant itself, high humidity flue gas emission will cause the increase of water consumption, and take away too much latent heat of vaporization, which is adverse to water conservation and heat reuse. High humidity flue gas and other acidic gases such as SO3 cause low-temperature corrosion of flue at the end of boiler, shortening the operation span of equipment. High humidity flue gas also produces "gypsum rain" after the wet flue gas desulfurization, which is harmful to the surrounding environment. Through research and analysis for high humidity flue gas emission from domestic and foreign coal fired power plants, the authors believe that a significant increase in the relative humidity and a large number of sub-micron particles discharging due to high humidity flue gas emission throughout the lower atmosphere may contribute to continuous smog, thus the quantitative study about the contribution of high humidity to smog is the next focus for the research of high humidity flue gas emission.
Highlights•The study investigates the upward flow of fracturing fluid through an abandoned well.•The geological setting of the North German Basin is considered.•The fracturing fluid does not reach the aquifers in a short-time period.•A limited amount of fracturing fluid reach the aquifers in a long-term period.AbstractHydraulic fracturing in shale/tight gas reservoirs creates fracture network systems that can intersect pre-existing subsurface flow pathways, e.g. fractures, faults or abandoned wells. This way, hydraulic fracturing operations could pose environmental risks to shallow groundwater systems. This paper explores the long-term (> 30 years) flow and transport of fracturing fluids into overburden layers and groundwater aquifers through a leaky abandoned well, using the geological setting of North German Basin as a case study. A three-dimensional model consisting of 15 sedimentary layers with three hydrostratigraphic units representing the hydrocarbon reservoir, overburden, and the aquifer is built. The model considers one perforation location at the first section of the horizontal part of the well, and a discrete hydraulic fracture intersecting an abandoned well. A sensitivity analysis is carried out to quantify and understand the influence of a broad spectrum of field possibilities (reservoir properties, overburden properties, abandoned well properties and its proximity to hydraulic fractures) on the flow of fracturing fluid to shallower permeable strata. The model results suggest the spatial properties of the abandoned well as well as its distance from the hydraulic fracture are the most important factors influencing the vertical flow of fracturing fluid. It is observed that even for various field set-tings, only a limited amount of fracturing fluid can reach the aquifer in a long-term period.
AbstractInteractions of naturally oxidized or chemically treated flat metal surfaces with the environment, such as the atmosphere or a polymer coating are extremely important for the practical applications. These interactions are governed by the surface chemistry defined by the number and ionization constants of the surface hydroxyl groups along with the surface charge properties. In the present study, a robust methodology was developed to characterize the chemistry of flat surfaces using the contact angle titration procedure. The point of zero charge on the surface of a series of metal oxides and hydroxides, determined using the proposed methodology, showed consistent correlation with the corresponding values for oxides and hydroxides studied in the powder form. A new model based on the concept of polar and disperse components of the work of adhesion and a simplified version of the triple layer was proposed to explain the evolution of the contact angle with pH. This model covers the wide range of pH and ionic strengths of the test solutions and directly accounts for the adsorption process and speciation on the surface. The adhesion of polymer coatings to the chemically treated metal substrates was also explored. It was shown that there is a linear correlation between the point of zero charge on the surface and the strength of adhesion determined by means of the feathering test. This finding emphasizes the significance of the surface charge properties for predicting the adhesion of coatings.
Highlights•Operating parameters of the mFe/Cu/O3 process were optimized thoroughly.•Performance of mFe/Cu/O3 and mFe0/O3 processes was comparatively investigated.•Synergetic effect between mFe/Cu and ozone was investigated thoroughly.•Degradation pathway of PNP and reaction mechanism of the mFe/Cu/O3 were proposed.AbstractThe performance of mFe/Cu/O3 and mFe0/O3 processes was comparatively investigated through optimized the key operational parameters for degradation of p-nitrophenol (PNP). The COD removal attained by mFe/Cu/O3 process was higher than that of mFe0/O3 process under the corresponding conditions. Additionally, under the optimal conditions, the COD removal (93.6%) obtained by mFe/Cu/O3 process was more than twice of the sum (44.6%) of that by ozone (35.3%) and mFe/Cu alone (9.3%). Finally, the key active materials in mFe/Cu/O3 system, degradation pathway of PNP and reaction mechanism of mFe/Cu/O3 process were proposed according to the analysis results of intermediate products, SEM–EDS and XRD.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (150KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Optimal Zn content for incorporation with different methods should be investigated.•Precise control of Zinc ions release and uniform distribution are significant.•It is necessary to develop novel porous Zn-Ti scaffolds possessing multi-functions.•The design of BM implants should consider the shape and implantation site factors. .AbstractTitanium (Ti) and its alloys are promising metal materials in orthopedic field, mainly due to their good mechanical properties, corrosion resistance and biocompatibility. However, the major limitation of those implants is poor osseointegration. While, surface modifications, which can enhance the biocompatible and osteoconductive properties by various methods, are considered beneficial to better osseointegration for Ti-based implants. Zinc (Zn) is an essential trace element for bone turnover through promoting bone formation and inhibiting bone resorption. In recent years, Zn involved surface modifications based on Ti alloy substrates for medical implants received huge attention. This review covers three topics: (i) the mechanisms of Zn in the induction of osteogenesis; (ii) different methods of Zn introduced surface modification of titanium substrates underlying promoting bone growth; (iii) The potential of Zn as biodegradable metal (BM) in bone tissue engineering.
Highlights•The presence of Fernox® inhibits both the anodic and cathodic reactions of copper in tap water, with the anodic reaction more heavily supressed.•Fernox® is more inhibitive than the individual components, BTA or TEA, and also more inhibitive than a mixture of the two.•BTA is the dominant inhibitive component of Fernox®. TEA also inhibits the reaction, but less effectively.•The inhibitors show the same degree of inhibition and the same mechanism of inhibition in hard and soft tap water.•A mechanism of inhibition is proposed whereby the inhibitor forms a film on the surface, which is reactive: surface polymerization of the reactive inhibitor is proposed.AbstractCyclic voltammetric examination of the corrosion and inhibition of copper in hard and soft tap-waters in the presence of a commercial inhibitor containing benzotriazole (BTA) and triethanolamine (TEA), or its separate components, is presented. The anodic and cathodic reactions are both strongly inhibited, although the anodic reaction more so. BTA is by far the dominant inhibiting component. The inhibitor forms a polymerized reactive adsorbed surface film. Inhibition of the cathodic reaction (oxygen reduction) is not due to electron resistivity of the inhibitor, but rather, by heavily reduced surface coverage of adsorbed oxygen over a wide range of oxygen reduction overpotential.
AbstractIn this study, a protective film consisting of an ultrathin two-dimensional polymer was prepared by hydrolysis of a (3-mercaptopropyl)trimethoxysilane (ethanol, 10−3 M) self-assembled monolayer grafted onto copper and a subsequent modification with 3(heptofluoroisopropoxy)propyltrichlorosilane (toluene, 10−3 M). Each stage of the preparation was characterized by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) while copper's corrosion-inhibitive properties were assessed by cyclic voltammetry measurements carried on in a 0.1 M NaOH medium. A remarkable enhancement of the copper's corrosion protection was obtained by the formation of lateral siloxane linkages between MPTS molecules absorbed followed by the grafting of the second molecular layer.
AbstractHigh-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and density functional theory (DFT) calculations were used to investigate the attachment of allyl and propargyl alcohols on Si(1 1 1)-7×7 under ultra-high vacuum conditions. The HREELS spectra of chemisorbed allyl alcohol (AA) show the concurrent appearance of characteristic stretching vibrations of Si−H (2104 cm−1) and Si−O (795 cm−1) coupled with the retention of vibrational features of CC stretching (1657 cm−1) and (sp2)C−H stretching (3012 and 3102 cm−1). These results clearly demonstrate the dissociative reaction nature via the hydroxyl group for the chemisorption of AA on Si(1 1 1)-7×7, which was further supported by XPS and DFT studies. A similar reaction pathway was found for propargyl alcohol (PA) adsorbed on the same Si(1 1 1)-7×7 surface. Our studies suggest that OH dissociation is highly favorable compared to [2+2]-like cycloadditions via CC/CC for organic reactions on silicon surfaces, which may be explained by the large spatial separation between the adjacent adatom-rest atom pair on Si(1 1 1)-7×7.
Highlights•The appearance of electrodeposition coatings shows clear pressure dependence.•Reduced pressure gives textured films, further decrease leads to smoother films again.•Film thickness and charge flow are pressure dependent as well.•The effects can be explained by adhesion and detachment of hydrogen bubbles.•The proposed model concept is supported by electrical data.AbstractWithin the last decades, cathodic electrodeposition paints have experienced extensive economic success – most prominently in automobile body coating. However, to date, it is not possible to calculate the deposition behaviour of cathodic electrodeposition coating materials exclusively from bath and application data, since the key mechanisms responsible for the film formation are not sufficiently understood. By performing coating experiments with cathodic electrodeposition paints at reduced pressures, in this work, experimental evidence for a pressure dependent procedure of film formation is given. Supported by charge-flow and current-time plots, this fact is attributed to the influence of the pressure-dependent volumes of the generated hydrogen bubbles, thus providing new insights into the deposition behaviour of cathodic electrodeposition paints.
AbstractThe introduction and widespread use of coronary stents have been the most important advancement in the percutaneous treatment of coronary artery disease since the introduction of balloon angioplasty. Coronary artery stents reduce the rate of angiographic and clinical restenosis compared to balloon angioplasty. This angiographic restenosis was further reduced with the introduction of drug-eluting stents and hence further reduction in the frequency of major adverse cardiac events. Herein we present a comprehensive and up-to-date review about the use of drug-eluting stents in the treatment of coronary artery disease.
Highlights•Eco-friendly Sb2S3 nano particles were fabricated by mechanical alloying process.•Low bandgap nanostructured Sb2S3 films were fabricated by thermal sintering process.•High stability Sb2S3 photoanode for photoelectrochemical water splitting.AbstractEnvironmentally harmless Antimony sulfide (Sb2S3) photoanode introduced water splitting device have a great potential for producing hydrogen from its optical characteristic. However, fabrication of highly pure Sb2S3 film by solution process has been suppressed due to the presence of various sulfide antimony compounds while chemical synthesis process. Here, high phase purity and high crystallinity Sb2S3 nanocrystal was successfully fabricated by mechanical alloying method. The solvent free and simple fabrication process realized low manufacturing cost of Sb2S3 nanocrystal fabrication without environmental hazard. Optical characterization by XRD, XPS and Raman spectroscopy confirmed that Sb2S3 nanocrystal film has high phase purity with high crystallinity. Furthermore, observed SEM images shows that fabricated Sb2S3 nanocrystal based nanostructure has high thermal stability till 300 °C. Finally, nanostructured Sb2S3 photoanode introduced water splitting device presented a saturation photocurrent of 0.69 mA cm−2 at 1.9 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.5 M H2SO4 under 1-sun illumination, with high stability and Фsaved, NPAC value, 4.36%. High photocurrent of water splitting device is originated from enlarged surface area of Sb2S3 nanocrystal film and electrical conduction improvement due to thermal annealing which reduced imperfections between nanoparticles.
Highlights•Pyr1-1 is a good mixed-type inhibitor for steel in H2SO4 solution.•Inhibition results from surface geometric blocking by chemisorbed species.•Maximal inhibition efficiency is 93.5% at 298 K with 1.0 mM of bipyrazole derivative.•The studied bipyrazole resists to corrosion efficiently even at higher temperature.Abstract2-[Bis-(3,5-dimethyl-pyrazol-1-ylmethyl)-amino]-4-[bis-(3,5-dimethyl-pyrazol-1-ylmethyl) carbamoyl]-butyric acid (Pyr1-1) has been evaluated as a corrosion inhibitor for carbon steel using weight loss and electrochemical polarization (EIS). The study was also complemented by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and quantum chemical calculations. The inhibition efficiency (η%) increased with increasing Pyr1-1 concentration, showing a maximum IE of 93.5% at 298 K at 10−3 M and decreased with increasing temperature. The electrochemical studies showed that Pyr1-1 inhibitor retards both cathodic and anodic processes through the inhibitor adsorption on the metal surface and blocking the active corrosion sites. The corrosion current density is the order 165.8 μA/cm2 of Pyr1-1 at the optimum concentration. EIS results show that the change in the impedance parameters (Rct and Cdl) with concentration of Pyr1-1 is indicative of the adsorption of molecules leading to the formation of a protective layer on the surface of carbon steel. A good fit to Langmuir adsorption isotherm was obtained between surface coverage degree and inhibitor concentration. The results obtained by weight loss measurements are consistent with the results of the electrochemical study. Quantum chemical approach used to calculate electronic properties of the molecule to ascertain the relation between inhibitive effect and molecular structure. The equilibrium adsorption behavior of this molecule on Fe (1 1 0) surface was investigated using molecular dynamics simulation.
AbstractAmine functionalities have been introduced on glassy carbon surfaces through electrografting of 4-(2-aminoethyl)benzenediazonium tetrafluoroborate. The grafted layers were characterized by ellipsometry and by nanomechanical mapping in air and aqueous solutions using the atomic force microscopy PeakForce QNM mode. The layer was found to be 2.5 nm thick with low roughness, comparable to that of the glassy carbon substrate. However, small semi-spherical features were observed in the topographical image, indicating a clustering of the grafted amine compound. The nanomechanical mapping also demonstrated some swelling of the layer in water and pointed toward an important contribution of electrostatic interactions for the tip-surface adhesion. The forces between an aminated glassy carbon surface and a μm-sized silica particle in aqueous solutions were measured at different ionic strength and pH-values. The results demonstrate that an attractive double-layer force predominates at large separations, and that the surface charge densities increase as the separation between the surfaces decreases. The degree of charge regulation on the aminated glassy carbon is significant. The relatively low surface charge density of the aminated glassy carbon is attributed to significant incorporation of counterions in the water-rich grafted layer.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (130KB)Download full-size image.Highlights► Phenylethylamine (PEA) was electrografted on glassy carbon and studied with AFM. ► Nanomechanical mapping reveals pebble-bed topography and swelling in water. ► Forces between silica and PEA were measured at different ionic strength and pH. ► The PEA layer show significant charge regulation capacity.
AbstractChromium isotopes are promising for monitoring and quantifying the extent of microbial Cr(VI) reduction. However, the mechanisms and factors that influence Cr isotope fractionation are not well understood. In the present study, we investigated the effects of different metabolic pathways and various environmental parameters on Cr isotope fractionation during Cr(VI) reduction by the extremely thermophilic bacterium Caldicellulosiruptor saccharolyticus. The Cr isotopic compositions were measured on unreacted Cr(VI) in the remaining solution. The reaction product is isotopically lighter than the reactant. The Cr isotope composition for remaining Cr(VI) in the solution followed a Rayleigh fractionation trend and thus became increasingly isotopically heavier as the reduction of Cr(VI) proceeded. Cr(VI) reduction mainly occurs on the cell surface by Ni–Fe hydrogenase; however, in the presence of CuCl2, the activity of Ni–Fe hydrogenase was inhibited, and Cr(VI) was reduced inside the cells. We found that despite different Cr(VI) reduction locations, Cr isotope enrichment factors (ε = (α − 1) × 1000, where α is the fractionation factor) were identical within uncertainty for experiments with and without CuCl2 (−2.72 ± 0.67‰ and −2.92 ± 0.14‰, respectively). When added to the cell cultures, neutral red (NR) functioned as an electron carrier that enabled bacteria to drive the electron transfer processes. The ε values were also similar for experiments with and without NR (−2.53 ± 0.40‰ and −2.92 ± 0.14‰, respectively). We compared these ε values to investigate the effects of different electron transport pathways and cellular Cr(VI) transfer processes, including Cr(VI) transport across the cell envelope and binding to reacting enzymes, on Cr isotope fractionation. Furthermore, the effects of various environmental parameters on Cr isotope fractionation were tested, including temperature (50 °C and 70 °C), hydrogen concentration, and different electron donors (glucose and hydrogen). The ε values were similar at both tested temperatures and stayed within the previously observed range for mesophiles; changes in hydrogen concentration also did not affect the ε values. However, the ε values were slightly higher with hydrogen as the electron donor (−3.64 ± 0.24‰) than those with glucose as the electron donor (−2.92 ± 0.14‰). In short, the Cr enrichment factors remained unchanged despite of changing microbial Cr (VI) reduction pathways and changing temperature conditions, but may be sensitive to the electron donor type.
Highlights•Use of sugarcane bagasse as source for nutrient and support material for the formation of biofilm.•Cr(VI) resistant-reducing Acinetobacter haemolyticus EF369508 and other types of indigenous bacteria.•Molecular analysis of the dominant species present on the biofilm species.•Laboratory-scale study.AbstractThe high cost of culture growth medium is one of the problems faced in the scaling-up of biological processes involved in wastewater treatment. This makes it imperative to find a useful, cheap and easily available alternative source for culture growth medium. The present work highlights the use of sugarcane bagasse (SCB) to sustain the population of Cr(VI) reducing immobilized-biofilm system in a non-sterile condition. The locally isolated Cr(VI) reducing-resistant Acinetobacter haemolyticus was used as primary bacteria inside the sugarcane bagasse packed flow-through column and showed 92–99% Cr(VI) reduction ability during the adaptation stage using 10–100 mg/L of Cr(VI). During the column study, around 4 h (3.0 mL/min) was required to achieve complete reduction of 25 mg/L Cr(VI). The retention time increases with the increase in Cr(VI) concentration. The morphology of the immobilized cells was slightly changed in the presence of Cr(VI) as shown from the FESEM analysis. Phylogenetic analysis of the cultured bacterium from the biofilm samples suggested the dominance of Chitinophaga terrae, Laribacter hongkongensis, Ottowia thiooxydans, Rhizobium cellulosilyticum, Candidate division OP10, Pedobacter sp. as well as uncultured bacterium. Overall, sugarcane bagasse may be used as an excellent alternative and cost-effective growth medium for cultivation of A. haemolyticus as well as support material in a packed-bed Cr(VI) reduction system.
Highlights•Sol–gel derived SnO2 nanoparticles encapsulated into gaur gum matrix•Utilizes organic–inorganic hybrid nanocomposite for determination of hydrazine•Cyclic voltammetry studies were used to evaluate kinetic parameters•SnO2-Guar gum nanocomposite an attractive matrix for the electrochemical studiesAbstractThe present article deals with synthesis of sol–gel derived tin dioxide (SnO2) nanoparticles encapsulated in to guar gum (GG) biopolymer as the organic–inorganic hybrid materials for the determination of hydrazine. The organic–inorganic hybrid combines the perfunctory strength offered by the inorganic SnO2 nanoparticles with flexible binding sites provided by the organic biopolymer (GG) solution by the ultrasonication. The phase identification, crystalline size, surface morphology and optical properties of prepared SnO2 and SnO2-GG nanocomposites has been investigated through FT-IR, XRD, SEM, AFM, TEM, UV–Vis, and PL techniques. The colloidal solution of SnO2 and GG is electrophoretically deposited (EPD) onto the indium tin-oxide (ITO) glass substrate and studied for the electrooxidation of hydrazine. Under the optimized experimental conditions, the linearity between the current response and the hydrazine concentration has been obtained in the range of 2–22 mM, with a low detection limit of 2.76 mM and a high sensitivity of 5.72 μA cm− 2. Based on the linear increase in amperometric current, a sensitive hydrazine electrochemical sensor is constructed. The proposed SnO2-GG/ITO electrode shows a good response time (35 s), reproducibility, and long-term stability. The obtained results suggest that SnO2-GG nanocomposites electrode provides a favorable sensing platform for the electrochemical studies. In addition, the cyclic voltammetry (CV) studies are used to evaluate the kinetic parameters.Graphical abstractSynthesis of sol–gel derived tin dioxide (SnO2) nanoparticles grafted in to gaur gum (GG) organic–inorganic hybrid nanocomposite for determination of hydrazine (HZ). Under optimized experimental conditions, SnO2-GG/ITO electrode shows, linearity 2–22 mM, and detection limit 2.769 mM with high sensitivity of 5.72 μA cm− 2. The results clearly suggest that SnO2-GG nanocomposite electrode provides an attractive matrix for impregnation of metal-oxide nanoparticles and an improved sensing platform for the electrochemical studies.Download high-res image (121KB)Download full-size image

Highlights•The effectiveness of SBA-15 functionalization in optimising PBI composites was studied.•The hybrid fillers do not improve the PBI properties with respect to pure SBA-15.•Encouraging MEA results (>320 mW cm−2) were obtained for membranes with pure SBA-15.AbstractThe use of inorganic fillers is an interesting strategy to improve the electrochemical performances of PBI membranes for application as electrolytes in HT-PEMFCs. Here, we prepared several mesoporous silica (SBA-15) based hybrids, functionalised with different moieties, namely acidic (SO3H-), basic (NH2-), and amphoteric (SO3H-NH2) units. The electrochemical properties of the resulting electrolytes were investigated in terms of proton transport and functional tests by varying the silica functionalization degree in the range 10–70 mol%, as well as the particles loading in the polymer (0–30 wt%). The actual effectiveness of the SBA-15 functionalization process in improving the electrolyte properties was compared with both the unfilled membrane and the one filled with pristine SBA-15. The best conductivity (∼90 mS cm−1 at 120 °C, 30%RH) was obtained with PBI composites loaded with 30 wt% of non-functionalized SBA-15. The use of fillers functionalized with acidic, basic of amphoteric groups did not lead to improvements with respect to pure SBA-15. This could be related to the set up of significant interactions between the functionalised fillers and H3PO4, which negatively influence the proton mobility. Encouraging MEA results (power peak >320 mW cm−2) were obtained in case of membranes based on pure SBA-15. These performances make the SBA-15/PBI composites particularly interesting for application in HT-PEMFCs.
Highlights•The cementation rate of copper onto zinc is favored by addition of nettle extract.•1.5 g L–1 of plant extract is the optimum value for inhibiting hydrogen evolution.•Hydrogen reaction is the cause of the decrease of cementation reaction efficiency.•The holes created by hydrogen evolution diminish in the presence of nettle extract.•The cementation is an attractive way to recover copper by adding natural compounds.AbstractThe cementation of copper onto zinc in acidic sulfate solutions in the presence of nettle (Urtica Dioica L.) extract was studied using atomic absorption spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, EDX and voltammetry techniques. The extract obtained by refluxed technique in water, was shown to be a good inhibitor against hydrogen evolution. This hydrogen is the major cause of the overconsumption of the substrate during cementation in acidic media and limits the efficiency of the cementation reaction. The rate of cementation is improved by the increase of inhibitor concentration in the solution until an optimal value of 1.5 g L− 1. The rate of the cementation reaction was also found to increase with increasing temperature until 37 °C. This effect is more significant when the inhibitor is present in the solution. This improvement is due to the inhibition of the hydrogen evolution by adding nettle extract in the solution. The electrode potential E(t) changes during cementation, with and without nettle extract, are followed and some conclusions were drawn for the copper deposit adherence onto the substrate and its morphology.
Highlights•Improved nitrate removal by biochar-supported nZVI.•A wider pH range for larger nitrate removal by biochar-supported nZVI.•Greater selectivity for N2 in nitrate reduction by biochar-supported nZVI.•Biochar’s positive effect on both nZVI reactivity and nitrate selectivity.AbstractWe prepared nano zero-valent iron/biochar composites (nZVI/BC) to remove nitrate from groundwater with harmless products. Results show nZVI/BCs derived from different mass ratios of Fe(0) to biochar exhibited different nitrate removal efficiencies, and the mass ratio of 1:2 developed the nZVI/BC with optimum nitrate removal. The nZVI/BC maintained preferable nitrate removal (75.0%–97.0%) over a wide pH range 2–12. Nitrate removal amount declined due to serious corrosion and clogging of nZVI/BC’s surface when initial nitrate concentration exceeded 40 mg/L. The nitrate removal process followed a first-order kinetic reaction. As regards real groundwater, the nZVI/BC removed more nitrate than both pure Fe(0) nanoparticles and biochar. Reaction product analysis revealed 60.1% of removed nitrate selectively became dinitrogen. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy measurements suggested that nitrate-oxidized Fe(0) resulted in significant increase of magnetite on the surface of nZVI/BC. The redox potential and pH of long duration in reaction changed around −210 mV and 8–9, respectively. These changes facilitated the selective reduction of nitrate to dinitrogen. We also proposed that biochar may provide favorable circumstances for nitrate reduction by directly mediating redox potential, pH and electron transfer, which establishes a possible mechanism for the enhanced removal and selective reduction of nitrate. Our study suggests that nZVI/BC would be a promising alternative for the remediation of nitrate-contaminated groundwater.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (192KB)Download full-size image
AbstractTriallyl phosphite (TAPi) was used as an electrolyte additive to improve performance of LiNi0.6Co0.2Mn0.2O2/graphite pouch cells at elevated temperature. The high temperature storage and cycling performances of pouch cells were investigated by various electrochemical methods and microscopy techniques. The results show that TAPi can effectively enhance the discharge capacity retention ratio after high temperature storage test. In the storage experiment, compared with the cells without TAPi, the cells containing 0.5 wt% and 1 wt% TAPi exhibit excellent initial discharge capacity retention of 91.7% and 89.5%, respectively. Besides, for the high temperature cycling at 45 °C, the cells containing 0.5 wt% exhibit optimal cycling performance. The results of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) suggest that the interfacial film derived from TAPi is helpful for protecting the electrode surface at elevated temperature, thus promoting the capacity performance and retention during the high temperature cycling test. Overall, these results suggest that TAPi can be regarded as a candidate electrolyte addition for lithium-ion batteries with high-nick-content NCM cathode to accommodate elevated temperature condition.
AbstractA modified chloride bath being suitable for high speed electrodeposition was used to deposit smooth and flexible Fe foils. Their surface morphology and crystal structures were observed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD), respectively. The results showed that the morphology and crystal structures of Fe foils changed drastically in the presence of Mn2+, Sm3+, La3+ and Fe3+ cations. Several morphology shapes were prepared in this paper. This will allow for further studying the effect of surface morphology on catalytic, magnetic and corrosive properties.Highlights► Fe foils were electrodeposited at a very high current density of 100 A dm−2. ► Surface morphology of Fe foils can be modulated by Mn2+, Sm3+ and La3+ cations. ► The XRD data suggest that these cations can also control the crystal texture of Fe foils.
AbstractIn this study, a novel Zn–Al–O binary metal oxide adsorbent was prepared and used to remove the emerging polar contaminant benzotriazole from water. The adsorption behavior, kinetics and mechanism were systemically studied. Results showed that benzotriazole was rapidly and effectively adsorbed by the adsorbent. Instantaneous adsorption was observed under each studied condition, and the adsorption reached equilibrium within 30 min. High initial benzotriazole concentration enhanced the adsorption. The amount of absorbed benzotriazole increased with increasing adsorbent dosage, but decreased with increasing ionic strength. Solution pH had little effect on benzotriazole adsorption. The adsorption isotherm was consistent with S-type. Langmuir isotherm model fitted the equilibrium data better than Freundlich, Dubinin–Radushkevich and Temkin isotherm models. The maximum monolayer adsorptive capacity of benzotriazole with and without electrolytes was 7.30 mg g−1 and 9.51 mg g−1, respectively. Elovich and pseudo-second-order models were most suitable for describing the adsorption kinetics. Interactions between the surface sites of the adsorbent and benzotriazole may be a combination of electrostatic interaction, ion exchange and hydrogen bond.
AbstractSolid oxide fuel cell as a conversion device is finding importance in the energy sector due to its high efficiency, low emissions and fuel flexibility. The use of producer gas as a fuel is gaining importance due to certain advantages over the conventional fuels while challenges lie in its usage due to the inherent contaminants present. This paper consolidates the efforts carried out using fossil fuels and highlights the challenges, and further, the progress made in the use of producer gas is critically examined. The effects of contaminants such as tar, particulate matter, H2S etc. on anode materials are highlighted, and the published results are consolidated to examine whether the maximum tolerance limits of the contaminants be identified. However, it is observed that due to many inexorable factors viz., differences in the electrode material, microstructure, diverse operating conditions, the conclusions obtained are diverse and it is difficult to predict the general behavior of a particular contaminant. The need for a comprehensive study having both experimental and theoretical components focusing on the role of contaminants under the same operating conditions and using the same materials is highlighted as a major conclusion of this study.
Highlights•Lagerstroemia speciosa leaf extract (LSLE), as an effective environmental-friendly corrosion inhibitor in acidic medium•The inhibition efficiency of Lagerstroemia speciosa leaf extract reached 94.4% at 500 ppm in 1 M HCl at 333 K.•Lagerstroemia speciosa leaf extract behaved as a mixed type of inhibitor with predominantly anodic nature.•The adsorption of Lagerstroemia speciosa leaf extract on surface of mild steel obeys Langmuir adsorption isotherm.AbstractLagerstroemia speciosa leaf extract (LSLE) was examined as corrosion mitigating agent against mild steel in 1 M HCl. The extract was characterized by GC–MS and FTIR. Weight loss (WL), potentiodynamic polarization (PDP), electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), SEM- EDX, AFM, UV–Vis spectroscopy and DFT studies were performed to examine corrosion mitigation performance of LSLE. As revealed by WL the extract was above 94% efficient at the concentration of 500 ppm and 333 K. Adsorption of LSLE on mild steel surface is spontaneous and follows Langmuir isotherm model. Mixed type inhibition with anodic predominance was revealed by PDP results. EIS data revealed the formation of inhibitive film on metal surface by the active groups of the extract. SEM and AFM show a better morphological image and reduced surface roughness in the presence of LSLE. UV–Vis results indicate Fe-LSLE complex formation during corrosion reaction. DFT has been conducted to correlate the inhibition efficiency with the molecular structure of active species present in the extract. Quantum parameters and Molecular dynamic simulation helps in correlating the molecular structure and adsorption strength with inhibition efficiency. ANOVA statistical test was conducted to compare the inhibition efficiencies obtained by using different techniques and the data reveals that they are significantly not different.
Highlights•Fractionation of Zn, Pb and Cu in sediments from Jurujuba Sound was studied.•Principal component analysis and Igeo were used to evaluate data.•Trophic state was determined based on the content of biopolymeric carbon.•Sediments extremely enriched with organic matter played a fundamental role in the retention of trace metals.•Zn can be considered the most threatening trace element to the local biota.AbstractPotential toxicity of sedimentary Cu, Zn and Pb were evaluated based on their fractionation at the inner part of Jurujuba, a small sound at the eastern margin of Guanabara Bay, Rio de Janeiro. Biogeochemical composition revealed an environment extremely enriched with anthropic organic matter and characterized as a detrital heterotrophic system. The fractionation analysis showed that Pb exhibited more affinity with the residual fraction followed by the amorphous Fe/Mn fraction. Cu and Zn were more expressive in the amorphous Fe/Mn fraction followed by the organic one and crystalline Fe/Mn fraction, respectively. According to Igeo index, sediments proved to be highly polluted by Zn and Cu and moderated polluted by Pb. Despite the actual contamination of Jurujuba sediments, the mobility of these elements seems to be limited since the most excessive concentrations were found in the less available fractions, depending on extreme physico-chemical variations to be released.
AbstractThe addition of water treatment chemicals has always been considered as a standard operation in water and wastewater treatment. The concentration of chemicals was usually kept to the minimum necessary to achieve a good quality of potable or otherwise treated water. A significant interruption to the status-quo occurred more than 20 years ago after a severe and highly publicized outbreak of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts. The strategic planning after the outbreak was to shift from physical-chemical to physical treatment methods, such as membrane filtration and UV disinfection. As such, the new procedures were supposed to eliminate the threat of water contamination through a minor addition of chemicals. Such was the mistrust and disappointment with water treatment chemicals themselves.Indeed, water treatment technologies are now using novel physical treatment methods. Membranes largely replaced granular filtration, and UV is paving the way towards minimization or elimination of the use of classic disinfection chemicals, such as chlorine and its derivatives. Yet, far from the “high-tech” revolution in water treatment technologies actually reducing the use of chemicals, the latter has in fact been significantly increased. The “conventional” chemicals used for pre-treatment, disinfection, corrosion prevention, softening and algae bloom depression are all still in place. Furthermore, new groups of chemicals such as biocides, chelating agents and fouling cleaners are currently used to supplement them. These latter are the chemicals needed to protect the high-tech equipment, to optimize the treatment, and to clean the equipment between uses.The health effects of the new chemicals introduced into water are yet to be fully established. Typically, a higher treatment efficiency requires effective chemicals, yet these are not always environmentally friendly. It seems obvious that the “high-tech” revolution currently affects the sustainability of water resources, and certainly not in a completely positive way. In short, the adverse effects of the introduction of such a significant amount of treatment chemicals into our sources of water are yet to be evaluated.
AbstractSlow-pyrolysis of biomass for the production of biochar, a stable carbon-rich solid by-product, has gained considerable interest due to its proven role and application in the multidisciplinary areas of science and engineering. An alternative to slow-pyrolysis is a relatively new process called hydrothermal carbonization (HTC) of biomass, where the biomass is treated with hot compressed water instead of drying, has shown promising results. The HTC process offers several advantages over conventional dry-thermal pre-treatments like slow-pyrolysis in terms of improvements in the process performances and economic efficiency, especially its ability to process wet feedstock without pre-drying requirement. Char produced from both the processes exhibits significantly different physiochemical properties that affect their potential applications, which includes but is not limited to carbon sequestration, soil amelioration, bioenergy production, and wastewater pollution remediation. This paper provides an updated review on the fundamentals and reaction mechanisms of the slow-pyrolysis and HTC processes, identifies research gaps, and summarizes the physicochemical characteristics of chars for different applications in the industry. The literature reviewed in this study suggests that hydrochar (HTC char) is a valuable resource and is superior to biochar in certain ways. For example, it contains a reduced alkali and alkaline earth and heavy metal content, and an increased higher heating value compared to the biochar produced at the same operating process temperature. However, its effective utilization would require further experimental research and investigations in terms of feeding of biomass against pressure; effects and relationships among feedstocks compositions, hydrochar characteristics and process conditions; advancement in the production technique(s) for improvement in the physicochemical behavior of hydrochar; and development of a diverse range of processing options to produce hydrochar with characteristics required for various industry applications.
Highlights•Minimum temperature of 275 °C is required to remove the templating agent.•Calcination treatment is not compatible with aluminum substrate.•Synthesis of a mesoporous film was achieved at room temperature via UV/ozone process.•UV/ozone illumination provides film with high specific surface area (325 m2/g).•Mechanical properties of 2024 aluminum alloy are not impacted by UV/ozone.AbstractSilica mesoporous films were synthesized via Evaporation Induced Self-Assembly (EISA) using Pluronic P123 as templating agent and were applied on 2024 aluminum alloy for surface treatment applications. The removal of the P123 from the film required to convert the mesostructured film into a mesoporous film was particularly studied and optimized in order to be compatible with the use of an aluminum substrate. In this work, two different kinds of removal treatments were compared: calcination at high temperatures and UV/ozone treatment. Indeed, a minimum temperature of 275 °C has to be reached to completely remove the templating agent from the film. However, this treatment also leads to a decrease in mechanical properties of the aluminum substrate. In opposition, the removal by UV/ozone illumination allows getting mesoporous films at room temperature with important pore volume and high specific surface area without impacting mechanical properties of the aluminum. The effect of these treatments on mechanical properties of bare aluminum was followed by microhardness. The development of the porosity inside the film due to the elimination of the P123 was measured by combining analytical techniques (Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy FTIR, radio-frequency glow discharge optical emission spectroscopy RF-GDOES), electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and adsorption porosimetry using a quartz crystal microbalance.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractSeries of fiber cross-linking cationic latexes containing both epoxy and quaternary ammonium groups were synthesized in the presence of styrene/butyl acrylate/steary methacrylate/dimethyl amino ethyl methacrylate/epichlorohydrin (SBSDE). The chemical structure and composition of SBSDE were confirmed by 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum (1H NMR), Fourier transforms infrared (FTIR), gel permeation chromatography (GPC) analyses. Latexes were subsequently used as sizing agents and surface properties (water resistance, surface strength, burst strength, whiteness, and tensile strength) of paper were examined and compared. Results revealed that SBSDE was a potential candidate for emulsion polymerization. Monomer ratio, initiator type, and SBSDE content determined the properties of latexes and strongly affected the sizing performance. The superior surface sizing agent was obtained by using 2,2-azobisisobutyronitrile as the initiator, when the concentration of SBSDE was 8.5 wt%, the butyl acrylate (BA)/styrene (St) ratio was 0.85.Graphical abstractComparing with AIBA, APS, and FeSO4 + H2O2 systems, the excellent properties of sized paper was obtained from AIBN system: The Cobb value is 58.25 g/m2; burst strength is 386 kPa; surface strength is 177 cm/s; and tensile strength is 58.58 kN/m. All papers showed nearly the same whiteness regardless of the initiator used in the systems.Download full-size imageHighlights► In this study, we synthesized a polymeric emulsifier. ► Fiber crosslinking latexes were synthesized in the presence of the emulsifier. ► The latex particles contain both epoxy and quaternary ammonium groups. ► The sized paper presents better physical properties than the unsized paper.
Highlights•Microbial fuel cell is a promising technology to mitigate environmental pollution.•Water sanitation coupled with electricity generation in MFCs is critically reviewed.•Electron release–transfer–acceptance mechanisms are key to MFC enhanced performance.•Various environmental pollutants can be removed or transformed into useful products.•MFCs integrated systems design might benefit from higher energy and water recovery.AbstractEnvironmental issues associated with water sanitation are not confined to developing countries alone but are the most basic human and environmental necessities all over the world. Wastewater sources are major causes for environmental pollution in surface and ground water bodies. Current wastewater treatment technologies are not sustainable to meet the ever growing water sanitation needs due to rapid industrialization and population growth, simply because they are energy- and cost-intensive leaving latitude for development of technologies that are energy-conservative or energy-yielding. For the present and future context, microbial fuel cells technology may present a sustainable and an environmentally friendly route to meet the water sanitation needs. Microbial fuel cell based wastewater systems employ bioelectrochemical catalytic activity of microbes to produce electricity from the oxidation of organic, and in some cases inorganic, substrates present in urban sewage, agricultural, dairy, food and industrial wastewaters. This article presents the potential for energy generation and comprehensive wastewater treatment in microbial fuel cells. The article provides an overview of recent literature with two specific aims. First, it provides an overview of current energy needs for wastewater treatment and potential energy recovery options followed by a comprehensive review of the principles of wastewater treatment, substrate utilization (organic removal), recent process developments, nutrient and metal removal capacities in microbial fuel cells. Several issues related to process performance, organic removal capacities and potential environmental impacts were discussed in detail. From the economic and life cycle assessment point of view, although recent developments in power production are encouraging, important discoveries in electrode materials, innovative and integrated process configurations along with experience in pilot scale studies are urgently required to determine the real potential of the microbial fuel cell technology to provide sustainable and energy-positive wastewater treatment.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (208KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Corrosion inhibition efficacy of two quinoline derivatives is examined.•The inhibition efficiencies are highly satisfactory at concentrations of 25 ppm.•Obtained mixed type inhibitors obeying the Langmuir adsorption isotherm.•DFT calculated parameters are accord well with the experimental properties.•SEM measurements were applied to study the morphology of the MS surface.AbstractConventional weight loss, electrochemical measurements, quantum chemical calculations and scanning electron microscopy techniques were employed to investigate the inhibitive effects of two novel quinoline derivatives, 2-mercaptoquinoline-3-carbaldehyde and (Z)-3-((4-chlorophenylimino)methyl)quinoline-2-thiol on the corrosion of mild steel in 1 M HCl solutions. The decrease in the weight losses of mild steel samples has proved that both the additives were efficient inhibitors. The mixed mode of inhibition was confirmed by electrochemical polarizations. Both the inhibitors followed the Langmuir adsorption isotherm. In addition to this, the quantum chemical calculations were performed at B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) level to complement the experimental results.Graphical abstractConventional weight loss, electrochemical measurements, quantum chemical calculations and scanning electron microscopy techniques were employed to investigate the inhibitive effects of two novel quinoline derivatives, 2-mercaptoquinoline-3-carbaldehyde and (Z)-3-((4-chlorophenylimino)methyl)quinoline-2-thiol on the corrosion of mild steel in 1 M HCl solutions.Download full-size image
AbstractThe kinetics of anodic dissolution and corrosion of zinc coatings deposited onto steel sheet either by electrodeposition or by hot dipping are investigated by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy in aerated sulfate medium. The results are compared with those obtained previously on pure bulk zinc and interpreted on the basis of the model derived in the first part of this paper. It is shown that zinc coatings are less sensitive to corrosion than pure bulk zinc and changes of their behavior with time are not identical. Important differences are observed between the various coatings in the respective contributions of the three parallel paths of the dissolution process. Three kinds of oxidation products were identified by Raman spectroscopy. A compact non-stoichiometric zinc oxide was formed by surface reaction on zinc. Above it, a thick and porous layer made of zinc hydroxi-sulfate and stoichiometric ZnO, was formed by precipitation from a local saturation of the solution. A strong correlation was evidenced between the oxidation products and the various paths of the reaction model. It was assumed that the impurities, initially present in the metal, may affect the interfacial reactions, the increase of the micro-roughness, and may also reinforce the protective properties of oxidation product layers. The differences between the various zinc coating behaviors result mainly from their impurities. Their crystal preferred orientations have no significant influence.
Highlights•ZnFe2O4@SiO2@TiO2 (ZST) photocatalysts were synthesized by Sol-Gel method.•The presence of SiO2 interlayer enhances the photocatalytic activity of ZST catalyst.•ZST catalyst presents superior photocatalytic efficiency towards the degradation of MB dye.•The possible enhanced mechanism of the ZST catalyst under visible light irradiation was deduced.AbstractThe preparation and application of magnetic photocatalyst has become an important subject in removal of organic pollutant. In this study, ZnFe2O4@SiO2@TiO2 (hereafter ZST) photocatalysts were facilely synthesized via a sol-gel method. The load amount of TiO2 particles could be tailored by controlling TBOT dosage in ZST composites. The photocatalytic activity was evaluated by the degradation of methylene blue (MB). Under visible light irradiation, the ZST40 catalyst displayed superior photocatalytic performance. The degradation ratio of MB was up to 95.1% in 2 h, which demonstrated that the catalyst with larger specific surface area and mesoporous structure had a better catalytic performance in degrading MB. In addition, the ZST catalyst exhibited excellent chemical stability and recyclability after eight recycling runs. We anticipate that controllable synthesis of ZST photocatalysts has promising applications in environment treatment.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (232KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Understanding corrosion mechanisms of 3D MID metal trace in sweat environment•Better corrosion resistance of EN coating than Cu in sweat•Improved corrosion resistance of 3D MID by using SAM and hydrophobic conformal coatingAbstract3D circuitry on moulded interconnect device (MID) is usually made of multi-layered metals, for example, electroless copper (Cu), electroless nickel (EN or NiP) and immersion gold (IG or Au), i.e. so-called Cu/ENIG. Anti-corrosion of MIDs in harsh environments, such as in contact with human sweat, is a challenge because the three metals have large differences in electrode potential and part of the circuitry is positively polarized during operation. Furthermore, any coating or surface modification applied onto the metal traces must meet other requirements such as good compatibility with soldering and less effect on the surface conductivity. In this study, failure analysis of 3D MID devices working in sweat environment was carried out to understand the corrosion mechanisms. It is shown that EN coating showed better corrosion resistance than Cu substrate, which is attributed to the passivation effect of phosphorus in NiP alloy material. The reasons causing the metal trace corrosion include existence of coating defects in both of Au and EN coatings, poor corrosion resistance of Cu in sweat, and large difference in electrode potential among the three metals. Based on the failure analysis results, a synergetic effect of surface passivation by using self-assembled-monolayer (SAM) of 2-mercaptobenzothiazole (MBT) and hydrophobic conformal coating was studied. The sweat tests show that a combination of SAM and hydrophobic conformal coating can effectively retard the corrosion progress of Cu substrate of the metal traces on 3D MIDs.
Highlights•Production of BCS by reduction of sodium dichromate using SO2 is attempted.•Packed tower design and optimization of operating points are obtained.•Studies on effects of parameters on conversion of BCS have been done.•Reaction rate for reactive absorption has been reported.•Cleaner technological options for sustainability and waste management are provided.AbstractFerrochromium and chromium based compounds are produced worldwide from chromite ore. Chrome chemicals are from chromium based compounds. Basic-chromium-sulfate (BCS) is a chrome chemical mostly required as main tanning agent in chrome tanning process in leather industry and also to synthesize other chromic compounds. During the preparation of basic-chromium- sulfate, sodium dichromate containing chromium (VI) is reduced to chromium (III) by sulfur-di-oxide in a packed tower at a chemical process industry (B&M Chemicals, India) where the BCS is produced at suboptimal efficiency due to inefficient (suboptimal) absorption of sulfur-di-oxide (as the gas enters the tower at a higher temperature) followed by reaction. Improper reduction leads to the presence of unconverted chromium (VI) that imparts toxicity, not only through product basic-chromium- sulfate but also through leather and articles produced using this chemical. Design and operating conditions of the packed bed absorber were found and effects of pH, temperature and concentration of SO2 on the performance of absorption were studied. The reaction is favored at pH 4. The overall efficiency of conversion in the tower is increased from 70% to 80% by operating the column at optimal operating conditions obtained using response surface method. Dispersion is achieved by random packing that provides complex countercurrent flow path resulting in greater probability of entraining gas inside the tower. Profiles of basic chromium sulfate are obtained along the height of the tower by solving mathematical models of the reactive absorption process. Chromium (VI) is 99% reduced to chromium (III) in the product. Leached residues and liquid wastes are treated with either ferrous sulfate or sodium sulfide to convert chromium (VI) to chromium (III) to provide sustainable technology. Treated solid waste is stored before safe disposal in hazardous landfill facility. As chromium (VI) is highly toxic, several sustainable methods are suggested to eliminate it from effluent to provide cleaner and sustainable production environment in the industry.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (96KB)Download full-size image
AbstractEmerging trends in manufacturing such as light weighting, increased performance and functionality increases the use of multi-material, hybrid structures and thus the need for joining of dissimilar materials. The properties of the different materials are jointly utilised to achieve product performance. The joining processes can, on the other hand be challenging due to the same different properties. This paper reviews and summarizes state of the art research in joining dissimilar materials. Current and emerging joining technologies are reviewed according to the mechanisms of joint formation, i.e.; mechanical, chemical, thermal, or hybrid processes. Methods for process selection are described and future challenges for research on joining dissimilar materials are summarized.
AbstractOil and gas pipelines often fail prematurely due to “microbiologically-influenced corrosion” (MIC). This occurs when free-floating bacteria collect on the inner pipeline surface, eventually forming complex adherent biofilms. Photodisinfection is an effective antimicrobial approach for several biomedical applications. This study evaluated the antibacterial efficacy of photodisinfection against two sulfate-reducing bacterial strains implicated in the process of MIC. Results showed that treatment reduced planktonic bacterial viability by >99.99%. Treatment of biofilms reduced viability by 99.9%, which was greater than the antibacterial effect observed using the biocide benzalkonium chloride under similar exposure parameters. These results suggest that photodisinfection may be useful in addressing MIC in industrial pipelines.
AbstractThe mechanical performance and chemical stability of porous alumina materials operating under harsh service conditions are of utmost importance in understanding their operational behavior if they are to stand the test of time. In the present study, the joint effect of nickel (Ni) reinforcement and rice husk (RH) pore-forming agent (PFA) on the tensile strength and the corrosion resistance properties of composite porous alumina ceramics was studied. To exploit the potential of this new porous alumina system, plain and Ni-reinforced porous alumina samples (Al2O3-xNi-RH; x = 2, 4, 6 and 8 wt%) were developed through the powder metallurgy technique. Comprehensive investigation on the tensile strength properties of the developed porous alumina ceramics showed that relative to the plain sample (tensile strength and elastic modulus; 6.1 MPa and 1201 MPa), the presence of highly stable Ni3Al2SiO8 spinelloid promoted the tensile strength enhancement (12.6–6.4 MPa) and the elastic modulus decline (897–627 MPa) of the composite samples. Similarly, corrosion resistance test was performed on the composite porous alumina samples in both 10 wt% NaOH and 20 wt% H2SO4 hot aqueous solutions. Overall, the composite samples demonstrated superior chemical stability in NaOH solution as compared with the plain sample. On the other hand, the composites were more prone to attack in H2SO4 solution, except for the Al2O3-2Ni-10RH composite sample which maintained its superiority over the plain counterpart.
AbstractThe effect of various heterocyclic compounds containing nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur, or selenium atoms on the corrosion of type 304SS in 2M sulfuric acid solution was studied by weight loss, gasometry, dc and ac techniques. It was found that the inhibition efficiency of tested compounds follows the order 2-methylbenzoselenazole (2-MBS) > 2-methyl-benzothiazole (2-MBT) > 2-methylbenzoxazole (2-MBO) > 2-methylbenzimidazole (2-MBI); the adsorption isotherms follow the Frumkin isotherm and the thermodynamic/kinetic model. Polarization curves showed that these compounds acted by decreasing the available surface area with no change in reaction mechanism. The stability of the formed film was verified by the AC impedance technique.
AbstractThe inhibition efficiency of 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium dicyanamide (EMID) was studied against mild steel corrosion, in acidic environment. Surface analysis showed that the assembled inhibitor film could protect the metal successfully, during 120 h exposure to 0.1 M H2SO4. The studies considering zero charge potential value (Epzc) showed that the anion plays the major role for film formation. The surface coverage ratio (θ) values were determined handling the double layer capacitance values (Cdl) calculated from Bode diagrams, for different concentration and temperature conditions. The inhibitor was fixed successfully within polypyrrole film and applied to steel surface as highly protective coating.Highlights► Inhibition efficiency of 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium dicyanamide. ► Highly stable inhibitor film is assembled on steel. ► Excellent efficiency for 120 h exposure in acidic media. ► This compound could be successfully fixed within polypyrrole coating. ► The protection efficiency of polymer film is improved.
Abstract“Chromium free” aluminium conversion treatments usually produce a very thin chemical conversion layer; moreover they do not possess the well known inhibition properties of chromates. Hence, the corrosion protection of the substrate is, in general, less effective than that offered by the thicker chromate layers. However, the aluminium/paint adhesion is noticeably improved by the use of fluotitanate pretreatment baths. Our previous works also showed that the behaviour of fluotitanate pretreatments can be similar to that of chromatized aluminium surfaces when the aluminium is painted with a protective thermoplastic polyester resin. The aim of this work is to study new bath formulations and treatment procedures in order to further improve the effectiveness of this kind of environmentally friendly aluminium pretreatment. Some production parameters such as surface degreasing and pickling, pH and salt concentration of the bath and time of immersion were varied in order to obtain more efficient conversion layers. Aluminium alloy sheets were pretreated in fluotitanate baths and for comparison, in traditional chromate baths or they were only degreased and pickled; these samples were then studied with and without the application of organic coatings by the use of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. The painted samples were coated with epoxy or vinyl resin types. The coatings were kept sufficiently thin (10–20 μm) in order to speed up undercoating corrosion thus highlighting the pretreatment action. By the use of proper testing solutions and of suitable fitting procedures of the impedance data, it was possible to identify the contribution of the pretreatment to the corrosion resistance of the painted aluminium alloys.
Highlights•PAH@Rh-NSNSs/CNT are synthesized by a facile hydrothermal method.•Polyallylamine molecules play an important role for the formation of nanosheets.•PAH@Rh-NSNSs/CNT show the excellent HER activity in acidic media.•PAH molecules act as proton carriers to enhance the HER activity.AbstractRationally tailoring the surface/interface structures of noble metal nanostructures emerges as a highly efficient method for improving their electrocatalytic activity, selectivity, and long-term stability. Recently, hydrogen evolution reaction is attracting more and more attention due to the energy crisis and environment pollution. Herein, we successfully synthesize polyallylamine-functionalized rhodium nanosheet nanoassemblies-carbon nanotube nanohybrids via a facile one-pot hydrothermal method. Three-dimensionally branched rhodium nanosheet nanoassemblies are consisted of two dimensionally atomically thick ultrathin rhodium nanosheets. The as-prepared polyallylamine-functionalized rhodium nanosheet nanoassemblies-carbon nanotube nanohybrids show the excellent electrocatalytic activity for the hydrogen evolution reaction in acidic media, with a low onset reduction potential of −1 mV, a small overpotential of 5 mV at 10 mA cm−2, which is much superior to commercial platinum nanocrystals. Two dimensionally ultrathin morphology of rhodium nanosheet, particular rhodium-polyallylamine interface, and three-dimensionally networks induced by carbon nanotube are the key factors for the excellent hydrogen evolution reaction activity in acidic media.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (298KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•In the digester gas, D4 and D5 comprised the 62% and 27% if siloxanes, respectively.•In landfill gas, the bulk of siloxanes were TMSOH (58%) followed by D4 (17%).•Methane utilization may be a possible mechanism for TMSOH formation in the landfills.•The geometric configurations of D4 and D5 molecules make them very stable.AbstractThe objectives of this study were to compare the types and levels of volatile methyl siloxanes (VMS) present in biogas generated in the anaerobic digesters and landfills, evaluate the energetics of siloxane transformations under anaerobic conditions, compare the conditions in anaerobic digesters and municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills which result in differences in siloxane compositions. Biogas samples were collected at the South District Wastewater Treatment Plant and South Dade Landfill in Miami, Florida. In the digester gas, D4 and D5 comprised the bulk of total siloxanes (62% and 27%, respectively) whereas in the landfill gas, the bulk of siloxanes were trimethylsilanol (TMSOH) (58%) followed by D4 (17%). Presence of high levels of TMSOH in the landfill gas indicates that methane utilization may be a possible reaction mechanism for TMSOH formation. The free energy change for transformation of D5 and D4 to TMSOH either by hydrogen or methane utilization are thermodynamically favorable. Either hydrogen or methane should be present at relatively high concentrations for TMSOH formation which explains the high levels present in the landfill gas. The high bond energy and bond distance of the Si–O bond, in view of the atomic sizes of Si and O atoms, indicate that Si atoms can provide a barrier, making it difficult to break the Si–O bonds especially for molecules with specific geometric configurations such as D4 and D5 where oxygen atoms are positioned inside the frame formed by the large Si atoms which are surrounded by the methyl groups.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
Highlights•Surface aggregation concentration and critical micelle concentration are evaluated.•Langmuir adsorption model is modified to reflect surface aggregation concentration.•Model is developed to predict homologous surfactants’ critical micelle concentration.•Modified Langmuir model and critical micelle concentration prediction model are combined.•Inhibition efficiency is well predicted from the above combined model.AbstractThe corrosion inhibition efficiency of different mixtures of three homologous surfactants, benzalkonium chlorides (BAC), was investigated using electrochemical measurements and modeling. The surface aggregation concentration (sac) and critical micelle concentration (cmc) of surfactant are useful to evaluate inhibition efficiency. A new cmc prediction model for ternary mixed homologous surfactants of interest has been developed. The model is applicable over a wide concentration range of dissolved salt in solution. The combination of the modified Langmuir adsorption model and the cmc prediction model provides a potential method for inhibition efficiency prediction of various mixed homologous surfactant systems at various dissolved salt concentrations.
AbstractStandard on-aircraft phosphoric acid anodizing processes such as PACs (Phosphoric Acid Containment system) and PANTA (Phosphoric Acid Non-Tank Anodizing) techniques are time consuming to apply and potentially hazardous in the repair applications. Finding a suitable alternative to the standard processes is becoming an increasingly active and important area of research in the aerospace industry. Recently developed techniques, such as silane and sol-gel surface treatments are time efficient and require little new capital investment. However, such treatments have the potential to introduce additional complexities and require rigorous controls of their own. In this paper, we review various in-service surface treatment techniques for bonded repairs on the airframe structures, including the use of 120 °C (250 °F) cure type film adhesives as well as both standard and new surface treatment methods. The relevant problems, concerns of implementation and the overall performance of bonded structures, including strength and durability, are discussed and compared.
AbstractA diversity of airborne dusts, gases, fumes, and vapors can cause dose-related symptoms in individuals exposed in the workplace. More than 250 chemicals have been incriminated as a cause of occupational asthma (OA). The prevalence of OA ranges from 2% to 6% of the asthmatic population. Predisposing factors facilitating the development of OA include the work environment, climatic conditions, genetic proclivities, tobacco and recreational drug use, respiratory infection, and bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Pathogenetically, new-onset OA may be immunologic or nonimmunologic in origin. The immunologic variants are usually caused by high molecular-weight allergens such as grain dust and animal or fish protein. Symptoms ensue after a latent period of months to years. Nonimmunologic OA can be precipitated by a brief, high-level exposure to a potent irritant. Symptoms occur immediately or within a few hours of the exposure. In either instance, once the diagnosis is established, the worker should be removed from the workplace. If the diagnosis is made in a timely fashion, most workers experience improvement. Prevention is the best therapeutic intervention. (J Allergy Clin Immunol 2003;111:S530-9.)
Highlights•Fe0 after magnetization changed surface characteristics and enhanced corrosion.•Pre-magnetized Fe0/PS significantly promoted 2,4-DCP degradation rate and pH suitability.•Possible degradation mechanism by pre-magnetized Fe0/PS was suggested.•Pre-magnetized Fe0/PS was efficient and promising for organics degradation and dechlorination.AbstractThe abatement of chlorophenols is of great environmental importance. Though Fe0 can activate persulfate (PS) to improve performance, our findings proved that pre-magnetized Fe0 (Pre-Fe0) could significantly enhanced the degradation and dechlorination of 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), and this Pre-Fe0/PS process was more efficient than Fe(II)/PS. The Fe0 before and after magnetization was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD), suggesting the acceleration of Fe2+ release after magnetization. The effects of some important operating parameters such as Fe0 dosage, PS dosage, pH, and initial 2,4-DCP concentration on the 2,4-DCP degradation and dechlorination by Pre-Fe0/PS were investigated and compared with that of Fe0/PS, observing a 1.9–5.2-fold enhancement in the degradation rate of 2,4-DCP. Although SO4− was the dominant active species responsible for 2,4-DCP degradation in two processes, pre-magnetization could promote more OH generation. Identified by GC–MS and IC, the degradation intermediates such as 4-chlorophenol (4-CP), 2-chlorophenol (2-CP), phenol, and some carboxylic acids were detected, and possible degradation pathway was proposed. This Pre-Fe0/PS process was also efficient for 4-chlorophenol and chlorobenzene degradation, obtaining a 5.2 and 3.2 folds enhancement, respectively. This work demonstrated that such a Pre-Fe0/PS would be very promising and environmental-friendly for organics degradation and dechlorination since pre-magnetization required no extra energy source while the introduction of Pre-Fe0 was rather simple and no need to change the present treatment system.
Highlights•Paper mill wastes intensified soil contamination and environmental risks.•Cd was mostly found in its carbonate fraction.•Cr was mostly available in Fe-Mn oxide bound fraction.•High mobility and contamination of Cd and Cr were found in the soils.AbstractContamination and associated risks posed by cadmium (Cd) and chromium (Cr) were characterized in the soils being continuously exposed by paper mill waste discharge in Assam, India. Soil samples from 20 (S-1 to S-20) sites surrounding a paper mill were analyzed by sequential extraction technique for Cd and Cr to assess the potential mobility and bioavailability of these heavy metals in the soils. Cadmium was mostly found in its carbonate fraction (37.14%) whereas; Cr was mostly available in Fe-Mn oxide bound fraction (34.72%). Relatively low amounts of Cd and Cr were associated with the water soluble fractions. The pollution load index (Pi) values of Cd exceeded the maximum permissible limit i.e. 1 in all the sites but, for Cr it exceeded in all sites but S-7, S-13 and S-16. The mobility factor values ranged from 47.4% to 87.1% for Cd and 12.8–67.2% for Cr. High mobility factor values represent relatively higher biological availability in the soil samples and thus could pose environmental threats in the area surrounding the paper mill. The high values of other contamination factors, viz. individual and global contamination factors, potential ecological risk factor, ecological risk index and geo-accumulation index indicated that the studied area was widely polluted by Cd and Cr as a result of the effluents discharged from the paper mill.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (274KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•The anodic and cathodic inhibitions of cerium cinnamate on AA 2024-T3 were investigated.•Cerium cinnamate was proved to be an effective inhibitor pigment for epoxy coatings.•Cerium cinnamate played self-healing effect at the defects in epoxy coatings.AbstractAn environmentally friendly inhibitor, cerium cinnamate (CeCin), was studied as an additive to an epoxy coating. The effects of corrosion inhibition on AA 2024-T3 provided by cerium cation and cinnamate anion were investigated by electrochemistry impedance spectra (EIS) and polarization tests. It was found that cerium ion and cinnamate group have synergistic inhibiting effects. The EIS results show that CeCin is an effective inhibitor pigment for improving the corrosion resistance of epoxy coatings on AA2024-T3, as reflected by the much higher coating resistance than that of the blank epoxy coating. The inhibiting effect of CeCin during the onset of corrosion in defects of the epoxy coating was verified using scanning vibrating electrode technique (SVET), which is in agreement with the EIS results.
Highlights•Optimum Au recovery in Cu–Au flotation is limited by inherent low grade and fine grain size of the mineralisation.•Detailed mineralogical characterisation and subsequent collector optimisation are required for improved Au flotation.•Optimum Au liberation, but not over-grinding is necessary for improved Au flotation.•Detailed mineralogical characterisation is required to maximise U, As or F rejection.AbstractIn most copper sulphide flotation processes, optimising recovery of trace elements such as gold or maximising the rejection of penalty elements such as uranium, arsenic and fluorine remains a major metallurgical challenge. This review looks at the existing and possible strategies of improving gold recovery in porphyry copper ores and rejection of penalty elements such as uranium, arsenic and fluorine in copper flotation concentrates.
Highlights•Carbon-coated ZnO is synthesized by the hydrothermal method as anode material for Zn–Ni secondary cells for the first time.•The rate capability of carbon-coated ZnO is investigated for the first time.•Carbon-coated ZnO possesses the superior electrochemical cycle stability and high discharge capability.•Carbon-coated ZnO with 6.1% carbon content shows the best electrochemical properties.AbstractCarbon-coated ZnO is synthesized by the hydrothermal method. The X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscope (SEM), high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) and energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX) tests indicate that carbon is uniformly coated on the surface of the ZnO particle. And the crystal form of ZnO isn't changed. The effects of carbon layer on the electrochemical performances of ZnO have also been investigated by the charge/discharge cycling test, cyclic voltammetry (CV), Tafel polarization curves and electrochemical impedance spectroscope (EIS) tests. The CV curves at different scan rates exhibit that carbon-coated ZnO has the superior reversibility at high scan rate. The charge/discharge cycling tests under different charge/discharge rates show, even if at high-rate, the cycling performance and specific discharge capacity of carbon-coated ZnO are also superior to that of bare ZnO. The Tafel polarization curves and electrochemical impedance spectroscope (EIS) verify that the carbon layer can improve the anti-corrosion and charge-transfer performances of ZnO. The different rate experiments indicate that, compared with the increase of the conductivity, the effect of carbon layer on improving the anti-corrosion performance of ZnO plays a more dominating role in improving the electrochemical performances of ZnO at low charge/discharge rate.
Highlights•Organosilicon films on 316L stainless steel using hexamethyldisiloxane and N2 gas•The film deposition rate increases with increasing N2 flow rate.•Very smooth, pinhole free and good adherent films are grown.•A film with good biocompatibility, transparent and nanowear resistance was produced.AbstractThis study focused on the characterization of the organosilicon films deposited on 316L stainless steel (316L SS) substrate using a plasma polymerization process with hexamethyldisiloxane (HMDSO) precursor and different N2 gas flow rates. The organosilicon film had a C-rich composition as deposited using only HMDSO precursor. The nitrogen content of thin film consecutively increased with increasing N2 flow rate up to 15 sccm. The film deposition rate increased with increasing N2 flow rate. All films exhibited the smooth and pinhole free surfaces. Good adhesion property was obtained for each film after scratch test. Better biocompatibility and cell adhesion was observed for the nitrogen free organosilicon film as compared with that of the untreated 316L SS. Further enhancement of biocompatibility was found for those films with N2 addition. The best biocompatibility, highest transmittance, less hydrophobic surface, and excellent wear resistance were noted for the film grown under 5 sccm N2 flow rate. Such film performance makes it become a promising candidate as the surface coating layer on 316L SS for biomedical application.
Context & ScaleFundamentally, energy and water resources are deeply interconnected. This presents urgent demands for impactful innovation in light of trends in population and energy consumption. Appropriate technologies can substitute for water in two of its three main roles (thermal medium, solvent, and biological medium); however, innovation is needed as these technologies have evolved over time from engineering needs, and not first-principles scientific thought.Central research priorities in the water-energy nexus are water-free energy generation, CO2 sequestration, low-energy separations, and enhanced fluids. Above all else discussed in the article, water pretreatment is presently a mystery and could transform future water and energy landscapes on an ultimate path to sustainable energy generation with no water waste.SummaryEnergy and water resources are deeply interconnected. In the United States, the water sector consumes ∼4% of primary energy, and energy generation is the sector where the most water is withdrawn. These competing water-energy demands are global and not unique to the U.S.; this highlights an urgent role for first-principles scientific innovation. The goal of this perspective is to define the scientific context of the water-energy nexus and examine ways in which developing technologies could have an impact on the future of deriving energy from water and, in turn, water from energy. Scientists, perched upon the steep slopes of demand curves for water and energy, are charged with developing enhanced techniques to enable a sustainable water and energy future. Inevitably though, for sustainability to be achieved, there must be a pairing of these innovative new technologies with a more cognizant public perception surrounding water use and reuse.Graphical AbstractDownload high-res image (238KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•VLE data of the binary systems of NMP were measured at a pressure of 95.3 kPa.•All the binary systems exhibited non-ideal behavior.•Antoine equation is used to find out vapor pressures of pure liquids.•The experimental data are well correlated with the Wilson model.•The activity coefficients and values of excess Gibbs energy are computed.AbstractVapor–liquid equilibrium results of the binary systems of N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone with cyclohexylamine, cyclohexanol, and cyclohexene at the local atmospheric pressure of 95.3 kPa are experimentally obtained in the entire composition range of the component liquids using Swietoslawski ebulliometer. The experimental data are correlated with Wilson model. The investigated systems show positive and negative deviations from Raoult's law, and also indicate the non-formation of azeotropic mixtures. The liquid phase activity coefficients are estimated considering the non-ideal behavior of the mixtures. Computed vapor phase mole fractions, activity coefficients, and the values of excess Gibbs energy with the optimum Wilson parameters are presented and the results are correlated to the molecular interactions between the dissimilar molecules of the binary mixtures.Graphical abstractHydrogen bonding interactions between the oxygen atom of CO group of N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone and hydrogen atom of NH2 group of cyclohexylamine molecule.Download full-size image
AbstractHexamethyldissilazane (HMDS) plasma polymerized films can be used in a wide variety of applications due to the facility on plasma polymerization of HMDS molecule and the high resistance to acid or basic corrosion of the formed film. Nonetheless, the hydrophobic character, as well as the possibility of adsorption of organic molecules, did not receive attention yet. In this work HMDS plasma polymerized films, presenting high organic character, were obtained in order to analyze their properties as sensors for organic compounds in N2 and aqueous solutions.The films showed to be not only highly resistant to corrosion in a wide scan of pH, but also presented high water contact angle (approximately 90°). The organic character of the films leads to a high adsorption characteristic for polar and non-polar compounds. The water contact angle measurements vary for 2-propanol aqueous solutions from 90° (0% of 2-propanol) to about 0° (50% of 2-propanol).When HMDS films were deposited on two different substrates, dielectric and porous silicon (PS), two main issues were found. The films suffered degradation by heating and porous silicon was planarized by the plasma deposition, as shown by infrared spectroscopy, optical and Raman microscopy.Deposition on piezoelectric quartz crystal (PQC) showed adsorption of polar and non-polar organic compounds carried by N2 and chloroform aqueous solutions.HMDS films deposited on silicon were electrically characterized showing quickly and reversible response for 2-propanol carried by N2. In saturated environment, the electrical current increases about five times when a range of −5 to 0 V was applied. For n-hexane drops, no reversible electrical characteristics were found. Although some issues were revealed, HMDS highly hydrophobic films showed promising characteristics for sensor development.
Highlights•The zinc doped polyaniline was grafted on the graphene oxide (GO) nanosheets.•The anti-corrosion properties of GO-PAni-Zn/epoxy composite were examined.•GO-PAni-Zn remarkably improved the epoxy coating barrier/active inhibition performance.AbstractBy a layer by layer deposition approach the grafted graphene oxide (GO) particles were grafted by zinc doped polyaniline (PAni) and then distributed in the epoxy matrix to provide active inhibition/barrier properties simultaneously. The modified/unmodified nanosheets were examined by X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis and Raman spectroscopy. The corrosion prevention effect of GO-PAni-Zn/epoxy composite was studied by EIS and salt spray test. Results revealed that the GO nanosheets dispersion quality and interfacial interactions were improved after applying PAni-Zn layer, leading to significant improvement in the epoxy coating barrier properties against diffusion of sodium chloride solution. In addition, according to EIS test results the active inhibition properties of the epoxy film was promoted after addition of zinc doped polyaniline compound. GIXRD results confirmed deposition of an inhibitor film on metal surface within the scratched part of epoxy composite coating filled with GO-PAni-Zn particles. In addition, the coating surface damage during salt spray test was significantly decreased through addition of GO-PAni-Zn as demonstrated by SEM/contact angle tests.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (333KB)Download full-size image
AbstractPolyaniline (PANI) was covered on the surface of ultra-short glass fibers uniformly by in situ polymerization of aniline. Epoxy coatings with different contents of PANI ultra-short glass fibers and ultra-short glass fibers were formulated and their protection abilities were evaluated by means of open-circuit potential, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and salt spray test. The results showed that the PANI ultra-short glass fibers had a significant inhibitive effect and its best volume fraction was10% in epoxy coating. XPS results indicated that a dense, stable passive oxide film of Fe2O3/Fe3O4 was formed on the steel surface beneath the coating.Highlights► The ultra-short glass fibers surface has been covered a layer of polyaniline. ► PANI ultra-short glass fibers have corrosion inhibition effect. ► A passive oxide film was formed on the steel surface beneath the coating.
Highlights•Factors affecting arsenic uptake and accumulation in rice grains are discussed.•Nutrients effect speciation of arsenic in soil and thereby uptake by rice.•Iron, manganese and sulfur effectively reduce As accumulation in rice.•Excessive application of phosphorus may lead to higher grain arsenic.•Nutrient optimization is a cost-effective strategy to lower arsenic in rice grain.AbstractGrowing rice on arsenic (As)-contaminated soil or irrigating with As-contaminated water leads to significant accumulation of As in grains. Moreover, rice accumulates more As into grains than other cereal crops. Thus, rice consumption has been identified as a major route of human exposure to As in many countries. Inorganic As species are carcinogenic and could pose a considerable health risk to humans even at low dietary concentration. Genotypic variation and concentration of nutrients such as iron, manganese, phosphate, sulfur and silicon are the two main factors that affect As accumulation in rice grains. Therefore, in addition to better growth and yield of plants, application of specific nutrients in optimum quantities offers an added benefit of decreasing As content in rice grains. These nutrient elements influence speciation of As in rhizosphere, compete with As for root uptake and interfere with As translocations to the shoot and ultimately accumulation in grains. This papers critically appraises the methods, forms and rate of application, mechanisms and extent of efficiency of different mineral nutrients in decreasing As accumulation in rice grains.
AbstractThis study was conducted to determine the interaction of individual corrosion products from biodegradable iron stents with cells from the adjacent tissue. The response of human umbilical venous smooth muscle cells (SMCs) to an excess of ferrous ions was investigated in a cell culture model at the phenotypic and at the molecular level. When soluble ferrous ions were added to the cell culture medium the cell growth rate was reduced. Gene expression profiling indicated a reduction in the amounts of mRNA from genes that are required for cell proliferation. In addition, mRNA was regulated from multiple genes involved in iron homeostasis, DNA replication and lipid metabolism. In conclusion, ions released from iron stents could reduce the vascular SMC proliferation rate by influencing growth-related gene expression and may therefore play a beneficial role in antagonizing restenosis in vivo.
Highlights•The 1HNMR & IR spectroscopy confirmed the chemical structure of prepared cationic surfactants.•The CMC decreased with raising both of the solution temperature the hydrophobicity.•The thermodynamic calculation declared the affinity for the adsorption then micelles aggregation.•The synthesized DHEO amphipathic compound showed impressive and antibiotic activity.•The synthesized DHEO showed low foam and emulsification stability.AbstractThree new cationic amphipathic compounds containing free terminal hydroxyl group with different hydrophobic chain have been laboratory prepared. The chemical structures of the synthesized free hydroxyl cationic surfactants have been confirmed using FTIR and 1HNMR spectroscopy. Three different techniques have been assigned to estimate the critical micelle concentration of the synthesized free hydroxyl cationic surfactants, which are surface tension, electrical conductivity and UV–Vis spectroscopy and a comparative study has been performed. The surface parameters have been assessed from surface tension measurements at three different temperatures 20, 40 and 60 °C. The experimental data clarified that the critical micelle concentration is temperature and hydrophobic dependent. The characteristic critical micelle concentration of the synthesized free hydroxyl amphipathic compounds decreases with raising the solution temperature and with increasing the hydrophobic character. The behavior of the three prepared surfactants is favoring the adsorption at the interface first, then aggregation in the solution bulk forming the micelles according to the thermodynamic calculations. The foaming power, interfacial tension and emulsification stability of the synthesized compounds have been assessed. Furthermore, the antimicrobial activities of the prepared free hydroxyl cationic surfactants with carbonyl and ether groups showed impressive killing action against both bacteria (Gram positive and negative) and fungi.
AbstractRecent studies indicate that there is a great demand to optimize pure Zn with tunable degradation rates and more desirable biocompatibility as orthopedic implants. Metal matrix composite (MMC) can be a promising approach for this purpose. In this study, MMC with pure Zn as a matrix and hydroxyapatite (HA) as reinforcements were prepared by spark plasma sintering (SPS). Feasibility of novel Zn-HA composites to be used as orthopedic implant applications was systematically evaluated. After sintering, HA distributed in the Zn particle boundaries uniformly. Corrosion tests indicated that the degradation rates of Zn-HA composites were adjustable due to the biphasic effects of HA. Zn-HA composites showed significantly improved cell viability of osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells compared with pure Zn. Both pure Zn and composites exhibited a low thrombosis risk and hemolysis rates while a Zn ion concentration-dependent effect was found on coagulation time. An effective antibacterial property was observed as well. The volume loss of pure Zn and Zn-5HA composite was 1.7% and 3.2% after 8 weeks’ implantation. Histological analysis found newly formed bone surrounding pure Zn and Zn-5HA composite at week 4 and increased bone mass over time. With prolonged implantation time, Zn-5HA composite was more effective on stimulating new bone formation than pure Zn. In summary, MMC is a feasible way to design Zn based materials with adjustable degradation rates and improved biocompatibility.Statement of SignificanceBiodegradable zinc materials are promising candidates for the new generation of orthopedic implants. However, the slow degradation rates and unsatisfactory cytocompatibility of pure Zn in bone environments limit its future clinical applications. Generally, alloying is a common way to improve the performance of pure Zn. In this study, metal matrix composite was chosen as a novel strategy to solve the problems. Hydroxyapatite, as a bioactive component, was added into Zn matrix via spark plasma sintering. We find that Zn-HA composites exhibited adjustable degradation rates and improved biocompatibility both in vitro and in vivo. This study provides exhaustive and significant information including microstructure, mechanical performance, degradation behavior, biocompatibility, hemocompatibility and antibacterial property for the future Zn based implants design.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (138KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•CAP was efficiently degraded by nZVI in DI water and other natural waters.•The kinetics of CAP removal by nZVI could be divided into two stages.•Detailed pathway of CAP degradation by nZVI was proposed.•The antibacterial activity of the CAP solution was greatly reduced after reaction.AbstractNanoscale zero-valent iron (nZVI) is very efficient in removing chlorinated nitroaromatic antibiotic chloramphenicol (CAP) from different waters including DI water, surface water, groundwater, and seawater. The corrosion of nZVI and product distribution after reaction in these water matrices were also investigated. Based on the identification of four main reduction products via HPLC, UPLC-MS/MS, and NMR-H spectrums, a more detailed pathway of CAP degradation by nZVI was proposed than ever reported. The two O atoms on the NO2 group were successively reduced first, and then two Cl atoms were removed via dechlorination. The process of CAP removal could be divided into two stages according to the pseudo-first-order kinetic model. A total of 97.0% of 0.30 mM CAP was rapidly removed by 1.8 mM nZVI in the first stage (6 min) with a surface-area-normalized reaction rate of 1.13 L min−1 m−2. Notably, after reaction with nZVI, the antibacterial activity of the CAP solution was greatly reduced. This study demonstrates that nZVI is a promising alternative to remediate CAP-contaminated water to reduce the antibiotic selection pressure of the environment.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (88KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Mass loading and removal of 21 emerging contaminants were determined in Indian STPs.•BTHs were found at the highest concentration, at 49,400 ng L−1 in influents and 50,200 ng g−1, dry wt in sludge.•Select benzophenone derivatives were measured in STPs for the first time.•Removal efficiencies of the emerging chemicals in STPs ranged from 23.4 to 97%.AbstractLittle is known about the occurrence of emerging environmental contaminants, such as benzotriazoles (BTRs), benzothiazoles (BTHs), benzophenones (BzPs), and bisphenol analogues (BPs) in India. In this study, we determined the occurrence and removal of BTRs, BTHs, BzPs, and BPs in five Indian sewage treatment plants (STPs). The respective measured mean concentrations (N = 5) in influents and effluents were 370 and 57.4 ng L−1 for BTRs, 50800 and 20200 ng L−1 for BTHs, 351 and 163 ng L−1 for BzPs, and 98.0 and 9.6 ng L−1 for BPs. Among the target chemicals analyzed, BTHs were found at elevated levels, and the measured levels were some of the highest ever reported in the literature. The mean concentrations (N = 5) of BTRs, BTHs, BzPs, and BPs in sludge were 44.2, 51200, 124, and 200 ng g−1 dry wt, respectively. The removal efficiencies for BTRs, BTHs, BzPs, and BPs ranged as follows: 54.2–85.6%, 23.4–85.0%, 51.8–71%, and 76.0–97.0%, respectively, and were comparable to those reported for other countries. Elevated concentrations of BTHs in Indian STPs can be related to consumption of these chemicals in a wide range of products including paper, textile and rubber materials.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (364KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Dispersion of nanoclay in polyurethane coating was successful up to 5 wt.%.•Nanoclay proved it is a potential flame retardant material.•The thermal stability of polyurethane coating was improved by nanoclay addition.•Nanoclay improved the corrosion resistance of polyurethane coating.•Nanoclay improved the mechanical resistance of polyurethane coating.AbstractClay polyurethane nanocomposite (CPN) coating films were fabricated by uniformly dispersing nanoclay, organically modified with 25–30 wt.% octadecylamine in varying concentrations up to 5 wt.%, in a commercial two component, glossy, acrylic aliphatic polyurethane using ultrasonication. Organo-modified nanoclay was characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD). The dispersion of the nanoclay into the matrix was investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). CPN coating films were characterized by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), and flame retardant, corrosion resistance and mechanical properties were also investigated. The XRD measurement indicated that, the organo-modified nanoclay particles were mainly constituted of montmorillonite with traces of quartz and calcite also found to be present. The SEM analysis showed that the nanoclay layers were dispersed and intercalated into the polyurethane coating. Thermogravimetric analysis showed that incorporating 5 wt.% organo-nanoclay into polyurethane considerably enhanced the thermal stability and increased the char residue to 14.11 wt.% relative to 4.58 for the sample without organo-nanoclay (blank polyurethane). The limiting oxygen index (LOI) test revealed that incorporation of organo-nanoclay led to a further increase in LOI values, which indicate an improvement in flame retardancy properties. The corrosion resistance also improved and this improvement increases with increase nanoclay wt.%. The mechanical resistance measurements demonstrated that the gloss of the CPN coating films slightly decreased, although hardness, adhesion and impact resistance of the CPN coating films improved with the incorporation of the organo-nanoclay.
Highlights•Research towards lead corrosion inhibition using carboxylic acids.•We examine the deposition of a lead dodecanoate coating on a lead sample and test it for corrosion using in-situ 2D SR-XRD.•For comparison we test the corrosion for a bare lead sample.•We could follow the deposition and the breakdown of the coating as a function of potential and time.•We report a clear inhibitive action of the coating.AbstractThis paper concerns a time lapse spectroelectrochemical study of the growth of lead dodecanoate layers on a lead substrate in an aqueous solution using cyclic voltammetry. In-situ synchrotron radiation X-ray diffraction measurements were carried out on station BM26A (DUBBLE) at the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) in France. The diffraction pattern images were taken using a two-dimensional Mar CCD camera. After deposition of the coating, a spectroelectrochemical study of a linear sweep voltammetry experiment using an acetic acid electrolyte, simulating ‘active’ lead corrosion, was carried out on both a bare and lead dodecanoate coated sample. The results show that the coating inhibits the formation of new lead corrosion products.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractCrystalline Mg-Zinc (Zn)-Strontium (Sr) ternary alloys consist of elements naturally present in the human body and provide attractive mechanical and biodegradable properties for a variety of biomedical applications. The first objective of this study was to investigate the degradation and cytocompatibility of four Mg-4Zn-xSr alloys (x = 0.15, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5 wt%; designated as ZSr41A, B, C, and D respectively) in the direct culture with human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) in vitro. The second objective was to investigate, for the first time, the early-stage inflammatory response in cultured HUVECs as indicated by the induction of vascular cellular adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1). The results showed that the 24-h in vitro degradation of the ZSr41 alloys containing a β-phase with a Zn/Sr at% ratio ∼1.5 was significantly faster than the ZSr41 alloys with Zn/Sr at% ∼1. Additionally, the adhesion density of HUVECs in the direct culture but not in direct contact with the ZSr41 alloys for up to 24 h was not adversely affected by the degradation of the alloys. Importantly, neither culture media supplemented with up to 27.6 mM Mg2+ ions nor media intentionally adjusted up to alkaline pH 9 induced any detectable adverse effects on HUVEC responses. In contrast, the significantly higher, yet non-cytotoxic, Zn2+ ion concentration from the degradation of ZSr41D alloy was likely the cause for the initially higher VCAM-1 expression on cultured HUVECs. Lastly, analysis of the HUVEC-ZSr41 interface showed near-complete absence of cell adhesion directly on the sample surface, most likely caused by either a high local alkalinity, change in surface topography, and/or surface composition. The direct culture method used in this study was proposed as a valuable tool for studying the design aspects of Zn-containing Mg-based biomaterials in vitro, in order to engineer solutions to address current shortcomings of Mg alloys for vascular device applications.Statement of SignificanceMagnesium (Mg) alloys specifically designed for biodegradable implant applications have been the focus of biomedical research since the early 2000s. Physicochemical properties of Mg alloys make these metallic biomaterials excellent candidates for temporary biodegradable implants in orthopedic and cardiovascular applications. As Mg alloys continue to be investigated for biomedical applications, it is necessary to understand whether Mg-based materials or the alloying elements have the intrinsic ability to direct an immune response to improve implant integration while avoiding cell-biomaterial interactions leading to chronic inflammation and/or foreign body reactions. The present study utilized the direct culture method to investigate for the first time the in vitro transient inflammatory activation of endothelial cells induced by the degradation products of Zn-containing Mg alloys.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (190KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•DPQ and chloro activator DPQ organic phosphors have been synthesized.•NMR and FTIR data confirmed the synthesis of organic phosphor.•DPQ organic phosphor future candidate for organic based blue emission applications.Abstract2,4-Diphenylquinoline (DPQ), derivatives 6-chloro-2,4-diphenylquinoline (DPQ-Cl) and 4′,6-dichloro-2,4-diphenylquinoline (DPQ-Cl2) were synthesized using a three-component domino reaction. The DPQ, DPQ-Cl and DPQ-Cl2 were characterized by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). Fourier transformed infra-red spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), Ultraviolet–visible (UV–vis) spectroscopy and photoluminescence spectroscopy. The TGA results showed that the DPQ was more thermally stable with respect to the DPQ-Cl and DPQ-Cl2. The synthesized organic phosphors showed bright emission in the blue region under an UV excitation wavelength of 325 nm with the power of 18 mW. These organic phosphors were found to be efficient candidate and may be used in organic blue light emitting devices.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (150KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe properties of ball lightning can all be explained on the basis of an approximate thermodynamic assessment of the chemical processes which must be occurring. Detailed explanations involve rather complex interactions between the various electrical, chemical and physical effects. There is no thermodynamic reason why high temperatures are needed to start the most crucial component — thermochemical refrigeration. Thus related chemical processes could have a wider application.After considering how the various forces combine in ball lightning and its close relatives, the possibility is explored that evidence already exists for similar, but simpler, combinations of forces. Such evidence is found both in the meteorological literature and in many of the early studies on condensation and steam phase electrochemistry.Chemical processes which can lead to charging of the earth and to thunderstorm electricity are considered, as are some very relevant properties of tornadoes. Related effects may also be responsible for the unexpectedly high temperature gradient found near the inner coma of Halley's Comet. The reported change in direction of the Tunguska bolide as well as its explosion in the atmosphere may also result from processes like those which occur in ball lightning.The physical chemistry of ions in saturated water vapour is not understood quantitatively and this ignorance is part of the reason ball lightning has seemed so strange. The same lack of information has also inhibited any follow-up of important laboratory findings related to droplet condensation. Suggestions for future work are made and some of the problems discussed.
Highlights•A MPSI-Au SAM electrode was developed for detection of promethazine hydrochloride.•Selectivity was realized in elimination of ascorbic acid and uric acid response.•Method gave wide linear ranges with a good detection limit (24.6 nmol L− 1) for PMZ.AbstractIn this study, a new Schiff base of bis-N-(2-mercaptophenyl) salicylaldimine (MPSI) has been immobilized on a bare gold electrode as a novel self assembled monolayer (SAM) sensor for determination of promethazine hydrochloride (PMZ). Cyclic voltammetry and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy are used to study the properties of monolayer of Schiff's base on a gold electrode (MPSI-Au SAM electrode) using the [Fe(CN)6]3 −/4 − probe. Also, the characterization of the MPSI-Au electrode was performed by scanning electron (SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM). The electrochemical behavior of PMZ on the MPSI-Au SAM electrode was studied by several voltammetry methods in phosphate buffer solution as supporting electrolyte. The modified electrode showed good selectivity in the presence of interference of ascorbic and uric acid. A calibration curve was obtained for PMZ in a linear range of 1.0–240.0 μmol L− 1. The detection limit for promethazine hydrochloride was found to be 24.6 nmol L− 1. The results indicated that the MPSI-Au SAM electrode could be employed for the determination of promethazine hydrochloride in urine and plasma samples.Graphical abstractA MPSI-Au SAM electrode was fabricated, characterized and applied for electrochemical sensing of PMZ.Download high-res image (200KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•The formation of H2S was promoted in the steam/argon atmosphere.•Pyrite was decomposed to pyrrhotite then oxidized to magnetite with steam addition.•So removal increased below 400 °C while varied little above 400 °C during pyrolysis.•Steam had little effect on So removal below 500 °C while promoted it above 500 °C.AbstractThis study focused on the effect of steam on the transformation of sulfur during pyrolysis of demineralized coal in a horizontal tube furnace within the range of temperatures from 300 to 800 °C. The main sulfur-containing products in the resulting pyrolysis gases including H2S, SO2, and COS were quantitatively measured using ion chromatography combined with Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy gas analyzer. The transformation of pyrite in char was assessed based on X-ray diffraction, while the organic sulfur was determined using both an infrared sulfur analyzer and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. The experimental results indicated that sulfur in the demineralized coal was primarily converted to H2S during pyrolysis under both argon and steam/argon atmospheres. During steam/argon pyrolysis, the steam promoted the formation of H2S while inhibiting the formation of SO2, thus increasing and decreasing the yields of these two compounds, respectively. In the argon atmosphere, the pyrite decomposed completely into pyrrhotite at 500 °C and was then converted to troilite at 600 °C. In the steam/argon atmosphere, different iron-containing compounds (Fe1−xS, Fe3O4, and FeO) were formed during the demineralized coal pyrolysis. The promotion of the pyrite transformation by steam was especially pronounced at temperatures above 500 °C. The organic sulfur removal was found to increase likely because the addition of steam above 500 °C promoted the decomposition of thiophenic sulfur.
AbstractEffects of oxidation cross-linking and sintering additives (TiN, B) on the microstructure formation and heat-resistant performance of freestanding SiC(Ti, B) films synthesized from Ti, B-containing polycarbosilane (TiB-PCS) precursor were investigated. TiB-PCS green films were first cross-linked for 1 h, 2 h, 3 h and 4 h, respectively, and then pre-sintered at 950 °C. Finally, they were sintered at 1800 °C to complete the conversion from organic films to inorganic SiC(Ti, B) films. The results reveal that curing time has a great impact on the uniformity and density of SiC(Ti, B) films. TiB-PCS films cured for 3 h yield the best quality SiC(Ti, B) films, which are composed of β-SiC crystals, C clusters, α-SiC nano-crystals, a small amount of TiB2 and B4C. TiB2 and B4C are both steady phases which can inhibit abnormal growth of β-SiC, effectively reduce sintering temperature and help consume excess C from decomposition of amorphous SiOxCy. After high temperature annealing at 1500 °C, 1600 °C and 1700 °C in argon, SiC(Ti, B) films still keep excellent mechanical properties, which makes them attractive candidate materials for microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) used at ultra-high temperatures (exceeding 1500 °C).
AbstractThe influence of natural occurring extract of Chenopodium Ambrosioides (CAE) on the corrosion inhibition of carbon steel in sulfuric acid solution is studied by the weight loss method, potentiodynamic polarization and impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements. The experimental results reveal that extract has a good inhibiting effect on the metal tested in 0.5 M H2SO4 solution. The protection efficiency increases with increasing inhibitor concentration to attain 94% at 4 g/l. Potentiodynamic polarization studies clearly reveal that it acts essentially as a cathodic inhibitor. EIS results show that the change in the impedance parameters (Rt and Cdl) with concentration of extract of Chenopodium Ambrosioides is indicative of the adsorption of molecules leading to the formation of a protective layer on the surface of carbon steel. The efficiency decreases with temperature. The adsorption of Chenopodium Ambrosioides extract is found to obey the Langmuir adsorption isotherm. The activation energies and enthalpies of the corrosion process of carbon steel in acidic medium were determined.
AbstractThe present work aims to investigate the corrosion behavior of AZ91 magnesium alloy treated with a 4% (v/v) methyltriethoxysilane (MTES) alcohol solution, with and without an alkaline pretreatment. The corrosion resistance was assessed by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and current densities were monitored by potentiodynamic polarization curves during immersion in a 0.1 M Na2SO4 solution. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) were used to perform a surface analysis. The electrochemical results showed an improvement of anticorrosion properties of AZ91. Furthermore, alkaline pretreatment enhances adhesion between silane film and substrate surface. This can be attributed to a surface enrichment in hydroxyl groups after the alkaline step, which increases formation of Si–O–Mg covalent bonds. The addition of Ce(NO3)3 to the MTES bath was evaluated, and it was found that the electrochemical response depends on the cerium ions concentration used. It was shown that the addition of 6.0 × 10−5 M of Ce(NO3)3 to a MTES bath improves corrosion resistance. Higher concentration of cerium ions lead to destabilizing the siloxane network, decreasing the efficiency of the silane coatings.Highlights▸ AZ91 magnesium alloy form a porous oxide/hydroxide layer with low corrosion resistance in a sulfate medium. ▸ AZ91 corrosion resistance is improved when MTES layer is applied on the surface previously submitted to the alkaline pretreatment. ▸ High Ce ion concentration in the silane film promoted the degradation of barrier properties of the film.
Highlights•TiO2–WO3 nanotubular composite were synthesized by anodization of titanium.•PEC water splitting of these composite is higher than that of pure TiO2 nanotubes.•Quantity effect of W in these composite for PEC water splitting is investigated.•Maximum hydrogen production of 2.14 mL/cm2 after 120 min is obtained.AbstractHierarchical WO3–TiO2 nanotube (WTNs) composite structures were obtained by anodization of titanium in a single-step process using sodium tungstate as the tungsten source. The resulting WTNs showed tubes with diameters in rang of 80–110 nm, wall thickness of 20–40 nm and tube lengths in the range of 7–8 μm. Diffuse reflectance spectra showed an increase in the visible absorption relative to pure TiO2 nanotubes (TNs). The photo-electrochemical performance was examined under simulated sunlight irradiation in 1 M NaOH electrolyte. Photo-electrochemical characterization shows that tungsten doping efficiently enhances the photo-catalytic water splitting performance of WTNs composite. The sample (WTNs-2) exhibited better photo-catalytic activity than the TNs and WTNs fabricated using other W concentrations. This can mainly be attributed to better charge carrier separation and transportation in photoelectrochemical water splitting by providing an effective way to address recombination losses in these composite materials.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
Highlights•A novel Cu-MOF was synthesized via the reaction between Cu2O and H2BDC.•AuNPs decorated Cu-MOF (Cu-MOF/Au) displayed synergetic catalytic effect.•Cu-MOF/Au showed excellent performance for electrochemical detection of nitrite.•The sensing platform can be used for the actual detection of nitrite in environment.AbstractHerein, an electrochemical sensing platform based on Cu-based metal-organic framework (Cu-MOF) decorated with gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) is constructed for the sensitive detection of nitrite. Cu-MOF was synthesized by a simple wet chemical synthesis at room temperature. AuNPs were electrodeposited on Cu-MOF modified glass carbon electrode (Cu-MOF/GCE) using potentiostatic method. The AuNPs decorated Cu-MOF (Cu-MOF/Au) displays synergetic catalytic effect for the oxidation of nitrite due to the large surface area and porosity of Cu-MOF, which could prevent the aggregation of AuNPs and increase the adsorption of nitrite, combining with the high conductivity and excellent catalytic activity of AuNPs. A nitrite sensing platform was constructed based on Cu-MOF/Au/GCE, and amperometric technique was adopted for quantitative determination of nitrite. The prepared electrochemical sensing platform demonstrates high sensitivity, selectivity and good stability for the detection of nitrite. It shows two wide linear ranges of 0.1–4000 and 4000–10000 μM, and the low detection limit of 82 nM. Moreover, the sensing platform can also be used for the nitrite detection in real samples. This work would broaden the application of MOFs material in constructing more novel electrochemical sensing platforms.
AbstractDuring storage and preparation of food, aluminium foil is often used for wrapping heat-sensitive raw food for protection against direct heat, e.g. grilled or baked fish fillets. In this investigation the aluminium contents of grilled and baked fish fillets with and without ingredients wrapped in aluminium foil were determined. The selected fish species were mackerel (Scomber scombrus L.), a fatty species, ocean perch (Sebastes spp.), a medium fatty species, and cod (Gadus morhua) and saithe (Pollachius virens), two lean fish species. The wrapped fillets were baked for approximately 20 min at 200°C in an oven, either without ingredients or, alternatively, with vinegar and sodium chloride added. In another experiment one part of a fillet was grilled over charcoal without ingredients and the other part was grilled with onion rings and mixed spices added. All aluminium concentrations of both baked and grilled fillets wrapped in aluminium foil increased during heating. The increase in aluminium concentration ranged from a factor of 2 (baked saithe fillets without ingredients from 0.10 up to 0.21 mg/kg) to a factor of 68 (grilled mackerel fillets with ingredients from 0.07 up to 5.04 mg/kg). The aluminium contents of grilled fillets were higher than those of baked fillets. Presumably two factors were responsible for the higher aluminium contents in grilled fillets: first the higher temperature of preparation when grilling fillets and second the high aluminium content of mixed spices (63.5 mg Al/kg), which may be taken up in part by the grilled fillets. All results clearly showed that some aluminium migrated from the aluminium foil into the food. The aluminium migration seems to depend on several factors, e.g. the duration and the temperature of heating, the composition and the pH-value of food, the presence of any other substances (such as organic acids and salt) and complexing reactions that result in dissolution of the complexed metal. Considering the present state of knowledge and the suggested provisional tolerable daily intake of 1 mg Al/kg bodyweight per day of the [World Health Organisation, 1989], no risk to health of the consumer would to be expected from eating meals prepared in aluminium foil.
AbstractThis work is an extension of studies into the mechanism of inhibition of a carbon steel by a non-toxic multicomponent inhibitor (fatty amines associated with phosphonocarboxylic acid salts) used for the treatment of water in cooling circuits. In a previous work [N. Ochoa, F. Moran, N. Pébère, B. Tribollet, Corros. Sci. 47 (2005) 593], it was shown that the properties of the protective layers formed on the metal surface were dependent on the electrode rotation rate. Moreover, two distinct surface areas were visualised on the metal surface and the ratio between the two zones was dependent on the flow conditions. The present study focuses on the measurement of the corrosion rate from impedance diagrams obtained at the corrosion potential for different electrode rotation rates. The measured polarisation resistances correspond to the anodic process. A non-monotonic variation of the corrosion current densities was observed and explained by the variation of the ratio between the two layers, which each have different intrinsic protective properties. From the polarisation curves plotted in the same conditions, the non-monotonic variation was not shown. Independently of the electrode rotation rate, the corrosion current densities remained low. This study brought an original approach to the influence of flow on the corrosion rate in the presence of inhibitors.
AbstractThe action of Desulfovibrio vulgaris (Dv) during a corrosion process has been reported in literature, but the influence of imidazoline in the formation of biofilms is not clear, as well as the effect of bacteria on the efficiency of the corrosion inhibitors. The aim of this work is to determine the behavior of bacteria in the presence of imidazoline. Therefore, the growth of Dv, isolated and characterized from a morphological point of view, was monitored during 21 days, during which synthetic seawater was used as the culture medium, according to the ASTM D665-98 standard. Electrochemical noise (EN) was employed to establish the corrosion type generated by the microorganism on an AISI 1018 steel cylinder. The attack was observed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). In order to evaluate the efficiency of the corrosion inhibitor, Tafel extrapolation was used; the optimum concentration of the inhibitor was used in the presence of sulphate-reducing bacteria (SRB). In general, two forms of corrosion were observed: localized corrosion (in the LAG phase) and mixed corrosion (in the LOG phase).
AbstractIn this paper results of outdoor experiments of rock–fungi interaction in polluted and unpolluted environments are reported and discussed in order to put in evidence the combined action of fungal colonization and atmospheric pollutants in the weathering of a limestone. Experiments were performed by exposing limestone samples to dry deposition of pollutants in the city centre of Perugia (Italy). After 1 year of exposure the samples were removed from the experimental device and analysed by X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy and microbial monitoring. After measurement the stone samples were stored in the laboratory at constant temperature (25 °C) and relative humidity (80%) for one further year and then re-analyzed by the same analytical techniques.Experimental results point to the ability of fungi to proliferate on lithic substrata in the presence of aerosol particulate as nutrient. This work, in particular, puts in evidence the survival of fungi on the contaminated substrata a long time after the removal of the source of pollutants. A memory effect of limestone for particulate pollutant is hence recognized provided the biodegradation of atmospheric pollutants by fungi. A scheme describing the main stages in the evolution of the rock–pollutants–fungi system is then proposed.
Highlights•Extract of waste banana peels is utilized to block the mild steel corrosion in 1 M HCl and 0.5 M H2SO4.•Inhibition ability has been investigated based on impedance and corrosion current values of mild steel in acid solutions.•Nearly 90% corrosion inhibition is achieved in both acid media.•DFT calculations are used to support the corrosion testing results.•Use of waste peels as efficient corrosion inhibitors is a good option for poor countries.AbstractCost effective prevention of steel corrosion utilizing eco-friendly materials is a high priority subject for the industries, these days. In this regard, we have explored ethyl acetate extract of Musa paradisica peels (EAEMPP) for mild steel protection in acidic media (hydrochloric and sulfuric acids). The electrostatic interaction of EAEMPP molecules with mild steel has been verified using UV–vis spectroscopy that clearly indicates extract molecules being adsorbed on the surface. The corrosion behavior of mild steel substrate in the presence of the fruit peel extract was investigated by Tafel polarization curves, linear polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) techniques. The results of electrochemical study strongly validate that EAEMPP limits the oxidation as well as reduction reactions at the active centers of the metal surface and thus retards mild steel corrosion in both acidic media. Variations in surface morphology of the mild steel with and without inhibitor have been studied via scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM), which has directly verified the reductions of corrosion loss. The adsorption behavior of the extract in both acid media is also studied, which is described suitably with Langmuir isotherm. Quantum chemical parameters, calculated by DFT calculations, have also aided in better understanding of the corrosion inhibition mechanism. We believe that employing green inhibitors from food waste may be useful in corrosion protection of mild steel with economical and ecological approach.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (136KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe corrosion rates in the presence of mimosa tannin as a low carbon steel corrosion inhibitor in sulfuric acid media, were measured by the weight loss method, in the range of temperatures from 20 to 60 °C. The Temkin, Frumkin and Freundlich isotherms were tested for their fit to the experimental data. The free energies and enthalpies for the adsorption process and the apparent activation energies, enthalpies and entropies of the dissolution process were determined. The fundamental thermodynamic functions were used to glean important information about the mimosa tannin inhibitory behavior. The results were explained in terms of chemical thermodynamics.
AbstractThe influence of the organic sulfur-containing compounds on the corrosion of ferrite and austenitic stainless steels in sulfuric acid was studied. The results showed that the anodic dissolution and self-corrosion of stainless steels were remarkably accelerated in solutions with a low amount of the organic sulfur-containing compounds (0.02 mmol/dm3). With an increase of the organic sulfur-containing compound concentration, more and more the organic sulfur-containing compound molecules adsorbed on the electrode surface and segregated the metal surface from the solution, which caused the decrease of the anodic dissolution and hydrogen evolution current of stainless steels. The anodic polarization behaviors of stainless steels were also changed with the various types of the organic sulfur-containing compounds and stainless steels.
Highlights•Pyrite roasting residue from 19thc. is a source of metal pollution in Riotinto mine.•We study Tl dispersion into soil by chemical, microscopic and spectroscopic methods.•Tl(I)-jarosite is the main mineral Tl hosting in soils.•Tl(I)-jarosite may behave as colloid nanovector in Tl soil pollution.AbstractSamples of an open-air pyrite roasting heap from the 19th century in the Riotinto mine area (SW Spain) and surrounding sediments and soil along a seasonal surface runoff channel were analyzed to study thallium (Tl) phase transformations during historical roasting of Tl-bearing arsenian pyrite, secondary weathering processes, Tl dispersion and current environmental pollution. Results from Electron Probe Microanalyses (EPMA) indicate an even distribution of Tl in pyrite grains of an ore sample (22 mg kg−1 total Tl), suggesting that Tl is incorporated in the pyrite structure rather than in discrete Tl-sulfide microparticles. The roasting residue (122 mg kg−1 total Tl) consists mainly of hematite. EPMA suggested that Tl in the roasting residue and contaminated soil was co-occurring with Fe oxide particles, with a mean Tl point concentration of 0.12% in samples from the roasting residues. Total concentrations of Tl in soil samples decrease with distance from the roasting heap to 14 mg kg−1. X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra collected on pyrite roasting residue and a soil sample suggest that most Tl is Tl(I) substituting K in jarosite. Sequential extractions show that most Tl (85–99%) in the soil and sediment samples is concentrated in the residual fraction and, thus, is rather strongly bound. Lastly, water extracts indicate that colloidal particles (i.e. <1 μm size) may contribute to the dispersion of Tl around and away from the roasting heaps.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (561KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe corrosion behaviour of irradiated MOX fuel (47 GWd/tHM) has been studied in an autoclave experiment simulating repository conditions. Fuel fragments were corroded at room temperature in a 10 mM NaCl/2 mM NaHCO3 solution in presence of dissolved H2 for 2100 days. The results show that dissolved H2 in concentration 1 mM and higher inhibits oxidation and dissolution of the fragments. Stable U and Pu concentrations were measured at 7 × 10−10 and 5 × 10−11 M, respectively. Caesium was only released during the first two years of the experiment. The results indicate that the UO2 matrix of a spent MOX fuel is the main contributor to the measured dissolution, while the corrosion of the high burn-up Pu-rich islands appears negligible.
Highlights•Soluble uranium removal by zero valent iron in freshwater and waste water.•Environmental restoration of uranium contaminated water.•Zero valent iron nanoparticles used for environmental remediation.AbstractUranium (U) has been released to surface soil and groundwater through military and industrial activities. Soluble forms of U transferred to drinking water sources and food supplements can potentially threaten humans and the biosphere due to its chemical toxicity and radioactivity. The immobilization of aqueous U onto iron-based minerals is one of the most vital geochemical processes controlling the transport of U. As a consequence, much research has been focused on the use of iron-based materials for the treatment of U contaminated waters. One material currently being tested is nanoscale zero-valent iron (nZVI). However, understanding the removal mechanism of U onto nZVI is crucial to develop new technologies for contaminated water resources. This review article aims to provide information on the removal mechanism of U onto nZVI under different conditions (pH, U concentration, solution ion strength, humic acid, presence of O2 and CO2, microorganism effect) pertinent to environmental and engineered systems, and to provide risk or performance assessment results with the stability of nZVI products after removal of U in environmental restoration.
Highlights•A flow chart has been developed for systematic breaker selection and design.•Complete investigations of breaker types and breaking mechanisms are conducted.•Breaker concentration needs to be carefully determined for the entire treatment.AbstractBreakers are a small portion of the total fracture fluids, but could be very critical in determining the fracture treatment effectiveness. Wrong selection of breaker may result in extended fracture cleanup in weeks or months. An optimized selection and design of breaker schedules help maximize fracture conductivity by cleaning up the proppant pack after a treatment. However, breaker selection and design still remains as a challenge.We conducted an extensive and complete investigation of breakers through a systematic and critical review of relevant publications in this area. We first presented the major breaker types and their own breaking mechanisms, then built guidelines in a flow chart for selection of breakers based on formation temperature, pressure, PH, salinity, and mineral compositions. We then developed a step-by-step procedure for optimizing breaker schedules and finally demonstrated with field case studies of two tight gas wells in Louisiana. The new knowledge helps one optimize breaker design and improve fracture treatments in tight gas wells.
AbstractStructure and chemistry of zirconium-titanium base conversion layers were characterised as a function of immersion time in the aqueous conversion bath to understand the mechanism of film formation. Characterisation was performed by glow discharge optical emission spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Preferential nucleation of the zirconium-titanium oxide film and its growth occurred on and around intermetallic particles, resulting in reduced cathodic activity of the particles. Passivation of the cathodes in this manner constituted a limitation in the formation of a good quality conversion layer.
AbstractThe hydrocarbons degradation by gamma irradiation of the waste automotive lubricating oil at different absorbed doses has was investigated. The waste automotive oil in a Brazilian oil recycling company was collected. This sample was fractioned and 50% and 70% (v/v) Milli-Q water were added. Each sample was irradiated with 100, 200 and 500 kGy doses using a gamma source Co-60—GAMMACELL type, with 5×103 Ci total activity. Gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC/MS) was used to identify degraded organic compounds. The mass spectra were analyzed using the mass spectral library from NIST, installed in the spectrometer. The sample irradiated at 500 kGy dose with 70% (v/v) Milli-Q water addition formed eight degradation products, namely diethanolmethylamine (C5H13NO), diethyldiethylene glycol (C8H18O3), 1-octyn-3-ol, 4-ethyl (C10H18O) and 1.4-pentanediamine, N1, N1-diethyl (C9H22N2). The color changing of the waste lubricating oil, for different absorbed doses, was determined by UV/VIS spectrophotometer. The related sample showed the lowest absorbance value evidencing the formation of 2-ethoxyethyl ether (C8H18O3) compound.
AbstractIn this work, three new polymeric coordination complexes were synthesized using squaric acid and 1-vinylimidazole. The structures of the coordination polymers, formed with Co(II), Zn(II), and Cd(II) ions, were characterized by elemental analysis, infrared spectroscopy (IR), thermal analysis (Thermogravimetry, TG; Derivative Thermogravimetry, DTG; Differential Scanning Calorimetry, DSC), magnetic susceptibility, X-ray powder diffraction, and X-ray single crystal techniques. The X-ray single crystal method showed that the squarato ligand behaves as bis(monodentate) via the oxygen atoms in μ1,3-mode and 1-vinylimidazole coordinates to the metal ion via the ring nitrogen atom as monodentate in the complexes. The central ions in the complexes obtained as single crystal exhibited slightly distorted octahedral geometries. The surface areas and hydrogen storage capacities of the synthesized complexes were also examined.Graphical abstractPolymeric squaric acid complexes containing 1-vinylimidazole were synthesized with Co(II), Zn(II) and Cd(II) ions, fully characterized, and investigated for their surface areas and hydrogen storage capacities.Download high-res image (50KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•A novel biobased salophen and its metal complex have been prepared from cardanol.•An efficient process by using microwave assisted heating for the synthesis of salophen has been performed.•The photophysical study showed keto-enol equilibrium in polar and protic solvents.•Electrochemistry and theoretical studies were carried out to determine the energy states.AbstractA new cardanol-based salophen (hpbp) ligand and its manganese complex [Mn(hpbp)] were obtained by microwave-assisted synthesis method, with yields and reaction times of 65% in 20 min and 85% in 5min, respectively. The structural features of compounds were confirmed by electronic (UV–vis and fluorescence), infrared and NMR (1H, 13C) spectroscopic techniques. The photophysical study of the ligand showed ketoenamine-enolimine tautomeric equilibrium, which was discussed based on the excited state intramolecular proton transfer (ESIPT) mechanism and was dependent on the solvent, concentration and molecular structure. The energy of the HOMO and LUMO orbitals (−5.41 and −2.12 eV, respectively), determinated by cyclic voltammetry and UV–Vis, the energy was very close to the values determined by the theoretical calculations. The studies revealed that the hpbp is a tetradentate ligand bonded to the metal ion by phenolic oxygens and by azomethine nitrogens. Therefore, this work contributes to the science of salophen compounds, in addition to stimulating the synthesis of new ligands from renewable sources for the coordination chemistry.
AbstractThe increasing demand for woody biomass increases the price of this limited resource, motivating the growing interest in using woody materials of lower quality as well as non-woody biomass fuels for heat production in Europe. The challenges in using non-woody biomass as fuels are related to the variability of the chemical composition and in certain fuel properties that may induce problems during combustion. The objective of this work has been to evaluate the technical and environmental performance of a 15 kW pellet boiler when operated with different pelletized biomass fuels, namely straw (Triticum aestivum), Miscanthus (Miscanthus × giganteus), maize (Zea mays), wheat bran, vineyard pruning (from Vitis vinifera), hay, Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and wood (from Picea abies) with 5% rye flour. The gaseous and dust emissions as well as the boiler efficiency were investigated and compared with the legal requirements defined in the FprEN 303-5 (final draft of the European standard 303-5). It was found that the boiler control should be improved to better adapt the combustion conditions to the different properties of the agricultural fuels. Additionally, there is a need for a frequent cleaning of the heat exchangers in boilers operated with agricultural fuels to avoid efficiency drops after short term operation. All the agricultural fuels satisfied the legal requirements defined in the FprEN 303-5, with the exception of dust emissions during combustion of straw and Sorghum. Miscanthus and vineyard pruning were the best fuels tested showing comparable emission values to wood combustion.Highlights► Performance evaluation of a pellet boiler operated with different agricultural fuels. ► Agricultural fuels could be burn in the tested boiler for a certain period of time. ► All the fuels (except straw and Sorghum) satisfied the European legal requirements. ► Boilers for burning agricultural fuels should have a flexible control system.
AbstractIn aqueous alkaline media (e.g. water-borne metallic paints) aluminium pigments react by the evolution of hydrogen. This corrosion reaction can be inhibited by addition of different water-soluble polymers with carboxyl groups like polyacrylic acids, styrene–maleic acid or styrene–acrylate copolymers. As a rough empirical rule can be stated that the corrosion-inhibiting effect of polymers with carboxyl groups increases with decreasing molecular mass and decreasing acid number. Moreover, the isoelectric point (IEP) of aluminium oxide (pH≈9) seems to be an important factor controlling corrosion inhibition (and adsorption) of polymers with carboxyl groups. Thermosetting phenolic resins (resoles) inhibit the corrosion reaction of aluminium pigment excellently at pH 8 but less effectively at pH 10. The corrosion-inhibiting functional group of resoles seems to be the chelating ortho-hydroxybenzyl alcohol structural part. In contrast, the nonionic water-soluble polymer polyvinyl alcohol does not inhibit the corrosion reaction. So, one may assume that an ionic interaction between aluminium pigment surface and polymer is necessary (but not sufficient) for corrosion inhibition.
AbstractThe processing variables that contributed to the formation of subsurface crevices under cerium-based conversion coatings on AA 2024-T3 were investigated. Focused ion beam milling revealed the presence of subsurface crevices underneath a small fraction (∼ 10%) of coated areas, typically in areas with large cracks through the coatings. A solution of sodium chloride and H2O2 etched AA 2024-T3 and produced features similar to subsurface crevices, which confirmed that crevices formed during deposition due to the composition of the coating solution. Using sodium nitrate in place of sodium chloride resulted in no etching of the substrate. Thus, coatings free of subsurface crevices could be produced by using cerium nitrate instead of cerium chloride in the coating solution. Electrodeposited coatings, even those deposited from solutions containing chloride ions and H2O2, were also free of subsurface crevices. As a result, subsurface crevices are not inherent to cerium-based conversion coatings, but rather were formed due to certain process parameters, specifically the presence of chloride ions and hydrogen peroxide in the coating solution.
AbstractThe role of iron-reducing bacteria (IRB) in biocorrosion is under discussion. According to some reports, IRB are able to induce protection of carbon steel while others suggest an important enhancement of corrosion through the reduction and removal of passive films of ferric compounds on the metal surface. In this work, we review recent knowledge concerning microbial respiration, the ecology of IRB containing biofilms and the corrosive or protective effect of such biofilms on metal surfaces.
AbstractThe paper summaries portions of work of the Structural Aging Program, sponsored by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). The paper addresses the assessment and repair of concrete structures in nuclear power plants. It presents the results of a survey of the the nuclear power plants in the United States to identify susceptible concrete components, rates of occurrence of deterioration, and to determine the durability of repairs. The paper describes deterioration mechanisms and discusses their effect. Repair techniques are described. Evaluation techniques and nondestructive test techniques are also discussed.
Highlights•SiO2 particles extended the induction period of the combined fouling.•SiO2 particles increased the asymptotic fouling resistance of combined fouling.•For combined fouling, plain tube had a longer induction period than enhanced tubes.•The variation profile of the accelerated combined fouling after scaling down is similar to that in a real system.AbstractThis study investigated the interaction between particulate fouling and precipitation fouling on two different enhanced tubes and a plain tube in a shell-and-tube condenser. Three kinds of fouling, including particulate fouling, precipitation fouling, and combined fouling, were measured continuously for more than 720 h in three individual tests, respectively. For the particulate fouling, three tubes suffered a similar fouling process. The asymptotic fouling resistance of the precipitation fouling on enhanced tubes was lower than on the plain tube. However, for the combined fouling, the enhanced tube with a larger start number experienced the greatest fouling. On the same tube, the asymptotic fouling resistances ranked from least to greatest in the following order: particulate fouling, precipitation fouling, combined fouling; and the durations of the induction period ranked as: particulate fouling, precipitation fouling, combined fouling. As for the combined fouling existent in real cooling water systems, the fouling induction period on the plain tube was longer than that of enhanced tubes. Compared with the particulate fouling (SiO2) and precipitation fouling (CaCO3), which had a high bond strength on the tube surface, the combined fouling was soft and easily removed by flow erosion or collision with big particles during the induction period. This indicated that particles mixed in the water could extend the induction period of combined fouling. However, once the combined fouling started to grow, these particles sticking on the heat transfer surface provided nucleation sites for the crystallization process and, thus, increased the fouling thermal resistance significantly. In addition, the results indicated that the variation profile of the accelerated combined fouling after scaling down is similar to the fouling process in a real system.
Highlights•Three nonionic surfactants (S1, S2 and S3) based on amino acids were prepared.•The chemical structures were confirmed by FT-IR and 13C, 1HNMR.•The surface tension measurement were carried at 25 °C.•The corrosion behavior of the prepared surfactants were studied.•The surfactants based on L-phenyl alanine exhibited high corrosion efficiency (94%).AbstractThree structurally different amino acids (Leucine, phenyl alanine and methionine) were reacted with oleic acid and polyethylene glycol (600) to give three nonionic surfactants (S1, S2 and S3). The chemical structures of the prepared surfactants were confirmed by FT-IR and 1H, 13CNMR. The surface parameters were calculated by surface tension measurements. The inhibition efficiencies of the prepared inhibitors on carbon steel in 1 M HCl were studied using polarization, and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. Correlation between the quantum chemical calculations and inhibition efficiency was discussed. From the obtained results, the inhibitor based on L-phenyl alanine has high efficiency (94.14% at 1 × 10− 3 mol L− 1) more than the other inhibitors.
AbstractThe current study evaluates Pd/Mg performance for 2-chlorobiphenyl (2-CB) dechlorination in the presence of naturally abundant anions such as sulfate, chloride, nitrate, hydroxide and carbonates and organic solvents that are used for ex-situ PCB extraction or may accompany PCB contamination. While studies abound on the effect of these species on corrosion rates of pure Mg, literature on the behavior of Mg galvanically coupled with Pd remains limited making their investigation necessary. We also provide insights on the effect of initial PCB concentration and system pH on 2-CB dechlorination rates. Among anions studied, especially interesting results were noted for nitrate, bicarbonate and the sodium salt of humic acid. NO3− underwent reduction to NH4+ thereby competing for electrons and consequently lowering 2-CB dechlorination rate. HCO3− significantly enhanced 2-CB dechlorination rates by serving as a proton donor. Humic acid also showed faster dechlorination rates, probably by acting as an electron ‘shuttle’ to the PCB. Only OH− produced significant impairment Pd/Mg reactivity systems. While ethanol and acetone both led to reduced dechlorination rates through reduced hydrogen production and increased affinity of 2-CB for the liquid phase, acetone lowered rates further by undergoing reduction to 2-propanol. 2-CB dechlorination at high solvent concentrations and in the presence of common anions highlights robustness of Pd/Mg systems and suggests they will fare comparably to their bench-scale performance in presence of interferences expected in natural systems.
Highlights•Comprehensively evaluating model of organic coating systems was established with AHP.•This model was verified to be reasonable by the electrochemical impedance data based on EIS.•Corrosion-resistant performance levels were defined based on the evaluated values.•Relationship of the evaluated values with the electrochemical impedance was proposed.AbstractIt is very significant to comprehensively evaluate corrosion-resistant levels of an organic coating system after accelerated tests or outdoor exposures. In this study, the comprehensive evaluation model of the tested or exposed organic coating systems was established with Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) based on their eight types of the often observable and measureable failure modes, and that this model was verified by the electrochemical impedance data based on their electrochemical impedances spectroscopies (EIS). The corrosion-resistant performance levels of the tested or exposed organic coating systems were defined based on the comprehensively evaluated values. The relationship of their comprehensively evaluated values with the electrochemical impedances of the tested or exposed organic coating systems was proposed. Finally, this model was used to assess the corrosion-resistant performances of the coated aluminum alloys with three types of availably commercial organic coatings after accelerated tests. The results showed that the comprehensive evaluation model was verified to be reasonable to straightforwardly and comprehensively assess the corrosion-resistant performance levels of the tested or exposed organic coating systems after accelerated tests in a laboratory which simulate different corrosive atmospheric environments.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (143KB)Download full-size image
Publisher SummaryThis chapter reviews the cultivation, structure, advantages, and potential uses of ciliated and nonciliated newt lung epithelial cells (NLC). When compared to cells from other organisms, newt cells—especially pneumocytes and ciliated epithelia—derived from the lung-possess a number of advantages for examining cellular processes at various levels of microscopic organization. However, with the exception of the fibroblastic TV 1 cell line, derived from newt iris, there are no established caudate cell lines. In this respect, determining the optimal culture conditions for caudate cell survival and proliferation remains an important area for future research. The relatively long cilia, their planar waveform, and the development of models to study movement at various levels of organization makes newt lung ciliated epithelium an ideal material for functional studies of ciliary movement and mucociliary transport (MCT). The favorable optical properties and exceedingly thin nature of the NP prove valuable in the development of same cell-correlative light microscopic (LM)-EM methods, utilizing advanced techniques of cryofixation.
AbstractThe present work aims at assessing the electrochemical behaviour of galvanised steel (GS) substrates pre-treated with bis-[triethoxysilylpropyl] tetrasulfide silane (BTESPT) doped with cerium nitrate. Furthermore, the work aims at evaluating the self-healing properties of the dopant and discussing the possible mechanisms involved in this process. The study was performed by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and by the scanning vibrating electrode technique (SVET), during immersion in NaCl solutions. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was also used to complement the electrochemical results. The results show that the protective behaviour of the pre-treatments based on Ce-doped silane solutions is dependent on the concentration of the dopant. The results also show that the dopant improves the anti-corrosion performance of the silane coatings formed on galvanised steel substrates.
AbstractMethylation reaction of indole was studied in supercritical methanol (350 °C, 215 atm) catalyzed by TMOS and TEOS. Use of both orthosilicates shows the same result of indole methylation. The indole conversion is ∼30% for 5 h of the reaction with and without catalysts. But catalytic reaction is more high-selective on 3-methyl-1H-indole formation – 95–96 mol% against 60 mol% for non-catalytic methylation. Indole conversion in catalytic reaction increases by a quarter (with no change of selectivity) when two equivalents of water are added into reaction mixture. Methylating system was assumed to be the TMOS–MeOH, and methylation proceeds via cyclic, multi-centered transition state (TS). The TS involves molecules of indole, TMOS, methanol, and water (if used), which are orientated in a certain way to each other by hydrogen and coordinate bonding. The reaction does not occur in supercritical ethanol or isopropanol with and without using the catalysts.Graphical abstractDownload full-size imageHighlights► Methylation of indole in supercritical methanol catalyzed by TMOS and TEOS at 350 °C. ► Selectivity on skatole formation (3-MI) was 95–96 mol% with using catalyst. ► Combination of TMOS–methanol is real methylating system. ► Water content influences on indole conversion and regioselectivity of methylation. ► No reaction was observed in sc-ethanol or sc-isopropanol with and without catalyst.
AbstractThe effects of thiourea and benzotriazole on the hydrogen permeation into iron were studied using a Devanathan–Stachurski electrochemical double cell equipped with a thin iron membrane. Hydrogen was cathodically generated on the entry side and fully oxidized on the exit side. The spectral analysis of both the electrochemical impedance on the entry side and the permeation transfer function between the ac current signals on the two faces of the membrane were recorded according to a method recently proposed. The modifications of the impedance diagrams and the transfer function diagrams induced by the presence of the organic additives were interpreted at the light of the mechanistic model of the transfer function which was recently derived. It is concluded that both additives inhibit the hydrogen evolution reaction, but thiourea promotes hydrogen penetration by inhibiting the recombination reaction, whereas benzotriazole adsorption inhibits the formation of the Hads and therefore their penetration into the metal matrix.
AbstractCorrosion inhibition of mild steel by sweet melon (Cucumis melo L) peel (SM) extract in 1 M HCl solution was evaluated by weight loss and potentiodynamic polarization methods. Various SM extracts concentrations such as 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5 g/l were added and corrosion rate (CR) of mild steel and inhibition efficiency (IE) were determined at various temperatures from 295 to 333 K. The appreciable decrease in CR with increase in SM extract concentration was observed at each temperature. However, the typically accelerated CR at each SM extract with the rise in temperature corresponded to the increased kinetic activities at the metal/electrolyte interface. By the addition of 0.5 g/l SM extract, ∼5 times lower CR of mild steel at high temperature (333 K) than in blank acidic solution confirmed its strong inhibitive efficacy. The relatively large variation in the anodic Tafel slope and progressive decrease in CR with an increase in the SM extract concentration validated the restricted dissolution of mild steel. The barrier characteristics of the SM extract layer and its chemical interaction with the surface was evaluated from the low activation energy (Ea) values that fluctuated from ∼20 to 23 kJ/mole. The increase in kad increased from 0.602 to 1.053 (g/l)−1 and decrease in ΔG°ad (−3.74 to −4.91 kJ/mole) with an increase in temperature from 295 to 333 K assured the spontaneous interaction of SM extract molecules with the steel surface.
AbstractThe influence of cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB) on the corrosion of carbon steel in HCl and H2SO4 solutions has been studied using several techniques such as weight loss, Tafel polarization, linear polarization and open circuit potential. Inhibition efficiencies have been obtaining from weight loss measurement, the effect of temperature on corrosion inhibition and the effectiveness of the inhibitor at higher acid strength have been examined. Polarization studies reveal that the inhibitor behaves as an effective inhibitor in H2SO4 as well as in HCl solutions. Measurements of values of polarization resistance (Rp) have also been carried out. The open circuit potential curves was shifted to less negative potential contrary to the blank.
AbstractCommercial Oxsilan, 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane and sol–gel siloxane coatings were applied on AA6016 aluminium alloy before electrocoating. Standard filiform corrosion test demonstrated the pre-treatment role on the under-paint corrosion rate. All pre-treatments increase the coating adhesion in water electrolyte (EIS). Anodic undermining is the mechanism of the coatings de-adhesion (SKP). Electromotive force (difference in potentials of defect-surrounding interface) and interface ability to promote the chloride migration are rate-determining factors of the filiform corrosion. Contrary to other pre-treatments, the aminosiloxane decreases the interfacial potential, facilitates the chlorides migration and leads to anodic de-adhesion of large coated areas (Tof-SIMS and EDXS).Highlights► Adhesion improvement of an electrocoating by four investigated silane pre-treatments. ► Anodic undermining is the mechanism of the coating de-adhesion. ► Galvanic cell and interface ability to promote chloride migration are determining factors of the filiform corrosion. ► The activation mechanism of filiform corrosion by aminosiloxane layer is proposed.
AbstractThis research is aimed at developing a methodology for the calculation of greenhouse gas (GHG) for palm oil mills in Thailand. It was prepared by setting up a system boundary to cover palm oil mills with the wet extraction process for the evaluation of the cradle to gate process. The existing methodologies for calculation were reviewed to develop a Thai GHG calculation methodology. There were 14 palm oil mills participated in the assessment of GHG emitted at source and the collection of data in relation to GHG calculation. They accounted for 34.6% of total crude palm oil (CPO) production capacity in Thailand. The GHG emissions of the wet extraction process arose from the acquisition of raw material, the chemicals used, the energy used, transportation and wastewater management. The average GHG emission value of fourteen mills without allocation was 1198 kgCO2e/metric ton (MT) CPO. The major sources emitting GHG were from the cultivation and harvesting of fresh fruit bunches and the wastewater treatment system. The total CPO production in Thailand in the year 2009 by the wet extraction process emitted an approximate total of 1.62 million GHG metric tons of CO2e. The GHG emission values of CPO by energy allocation from the mills with biogas capture, the mills without biogas capture, the Thailand average, and the best observed scenarios were 750, 1087, 871 and 440 kgCO2e/MT CPO, respectively.Highlights► The methodology of GHG calculation for palm oil mill was developed. ► Mills with biogas capture emitted 30% less GHG than mills without biogas capture. ► Total CPO production in Thailand emitted GHG 1.62 million MT CO2e in 2009. ► The production of FFB and POME treatment were major sources of GHG emissions.
AbstractAncient and historic tin bronzes can be substantially affected by corrosion when submitted to non adequate storage conditions or more aggressive environments such as, for example, the marked increase of air pollution and of acidity of rainwater in urban medium recently affecting outdoor monuments. To protect them, some triazole compounds were tested as corrosion inhibitors of bronze covered with patina layer. As in the case of cultural artefacts, each specimen is unique, an accurate comparison of inhibiting effect of different molecules is therefore hard to realise. To overcome this difficulty, on the basis of a global understanding of the nature of natural bronze patinas, artificial patinas were synthesised on a contemporary bronze (Cu–Sn–Pb) having a similar composition to that of bronze coins dating of the post Roman Empire (5th–6th century AD). Surface characterization and electrochemical experiments were carried out both on contemporary bronze covered with artificial patina and on three ancient bronze coins discovered in Morocco. All triazole derivatives used, benzo-triazole (BTA), amino-triazole (ATA) and bi-triazole (BiTA), exhibited fairly good protective properties on the synthetic bronze. The BTA is efficient in an artificial patina isolated of the substrate bronze and an old bronze specimen covered with patina layer, but this substance is considered as toxic. The BiTA has shown only a slight inhibiting effect on the ancient bronze coin. The ATA is the most effective at 0.1 mM concentration, and the initial treatment of bronze at a higher concentration makes inhibiting effect lower. The ATA is therefore considered the most promising candidate to be applied to protect antique bronze artefacts covered with natural patina layer.
AbstractThe paper deals with understanding the electrochemical impedance behavior of (a) chromate coating (b) electrically conducting polymer coating and (c) polyurethane coating under different combinations applied over AZ31 magnesium alloy in an effort to develop a conducting organic coating that can offer corrosion protection as well as electrical conductivity. The study indicates that dispersion of graphite in acrylic coating though significantly brings down the electrical resistance; application of such a coating on the magnesium alloy does not offer good resistance against corrosion. In order to gain both the corrosion resistance as well as electrical conductivity an intermediate coating such as polyurethane needs to be provided. The paper discusses the electrochemical impedance behavior of the above coatings.
Highlights•Biodiesel is one of the promising alternative energy resources.•Biodiesel production generates highly polluted wastewater.•Biodiesel wastewater treatments developed so far have their own novelty and weaknesses.•Coagulation-BAF processes seem feasible for biodiesel wastewater treatment.AbstractThe development of technologies providing alternatives to petroleum fuel has led to the production of biodiesel fuel. This paper reviews the methods used to produce biodiesel fuel from various types of sources such as palm oil, jatropha oil, microalgae, and corn starch. It also includes a brief description of the transesterification process and the point source of biodiesel wastewater, from which it is mainly generated. Biodiesel wastewater is characterized by high contents of chemical oxygen demand (COD), biological oxygen demand (BOD5), oil, methanol, soap and glycerol. The treatments developed so far for biodiesel wastewater are also described. The authors also investigate the significance, ability and possibility of biological aerated filter (BAF) to treat biodiesel wastewater discharged from a biodiesel fuel production plant. The whole treatment; coagulation-biological aerated filter (CoBAF); involves the pre-treatment of biodiesel wastewater using coagulation followed by the treatment using BAF.
AbstractIn this paper, we demonstrated that modification with iridium oxide nanoparticles is a simple and effective method to remarkably enhance the photocatalytic activity and stability of CdSe/CdS quantum dots. The modification was conducted by immersing the nanorods into iridium oxide colloidal solution. Open circuit photovoltage decay spectra reveal that the decay rate declines significantly after iridium oxide modification. Through further treatment of the decay spectra, we obtained the electron lifetime in photoelectrode varied with open circuit voltage, which betrays that the electrode with iridium oxide modification shows a magnitude higher electron lifetime compared to the electrode without.
AbstractThe anti-corrosive properties of 2-aminomethylbenzimidazole (AMB) and bis(benzimidazol-2-ylethyl)sulfide (BBES) were analyzed by electrochemical techniques such as polarization curves and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The results show that AMB behaves as a cathodic inhibitor, while BBES functions as mixture inhibitor. Furthermore, BBES inhibits the corrosive process more strongly than AMB; because in the former benzimidazoles and thioether sulfur work as active sites for the adsorption process over the metal surfaces. This observation is supported by density functional theoretical (DFT) parameters such as frontier molecular orbitals (HOMO and LUMO), Mulliken charges and the electrostatic potential map.
AbstractThe multi-phase mean-value model previously proposed for modelling the marine immersion corrosion of low carbon and low alloy structural steels is examined for application to fresh and brackish waters. Use is made of field data for brackish and fresh waters available in the literature, supplemented with data or estimates for water temperature, pH, hardness and nutrient levels. It is shown that the data exhibits consistency with the model and that it is a function of average water temperature. Corrosion in brackish and fresh waters corrosion depends on water hardness, pH and nutrient levels, with higher pH levels and lower water hardness associated with higher aerobic levels of corrosion but these are not significant for anaerobic corrosion. In the anaerobic phases 3 and 4 of the model, the available data and associated trends are interpreted as showing that elevated levels of nutrients produce higher rates of corrosion. Conversely, these phases showed very low rates of corrosion for fresh waters with very low nutrient levels. Consistent with basic corrosion theory and with laboratory observations, salinity by itself is not a clear distinguishing characteristic. The model provides a new approach to interpreting the available data for corrosion in fresh and brackish waters. It permits plausible explanations for previous apparently inconsistent observations for corrosion in brackish waters. Finally, it reinforces the need for full and detailed reporting of corrosion testing programs, including details of precise timing, location, orientation and environmental conditions including means and variations in water temperatures, DO, salinity, pH, water hardness, carbonates and various nutrients.
Highlights•Environmental and Economic Life Cycle Assessment of different design strategies for bridge decks in coastal environments.•18 design alternatives were studied and compared.•Maintenance strategies is optimized for each design following a reliability-based approach.•Maintenance optimization results in significant reductions of life cycle impacts.•Concrete with silica fume and hydrophobic surface treatments perform best in economical and environmental terms.AbstractSustainability is of paramount importance when facing the design of long lasting, maintenance demanding structures. In particular, a sustainable life cycle design for concrete structure exposed to aggressive environments may lead to significant economic savings, and to reduced environmental consequences. The present study evaluates 18 different design alternatives for an existing concrete bridge deck exposed to chlorides, analyzing the economic and environmental impacts associated with each design as a function of the maintenance interval chosen. Results are illustrated in the context of a reliability-based maintenance optimization on both life cycle costs and life cycle environmental impacts. Maintenance optimization results in significant reductions of life cycle impacts if compared to the damage resulting from performing the maintenance actions when the end of the service life of the structure is reached. The use of concrete with 10% silica fume has been shown to be the most effective prevention strategy against corrosion of reinforcement steel in economic terms, reducing the life cycle costs of the original deck design by 76%. From an environmental perspective, maintenance based on the hydrophobic treatment of the concrete deck surface results in the best performance, allowing for a reduction of the impacts associated with the original design by 82.8%.
AbstractMechanistic and kinetic experiments were carried out on the NOX selective catalytic reduction (SCR) by C3H6 in excess O2 over In/Al2O3 in the presence and absence of SO2 and H2O. The In loadings in the catalyst varied in the range of 1–4%. The 2% In/Al2O3 exhibited the highest activity. The performance of the aforementioned catalyst was measured using different pretreatment procedures. Pretreatment with O2 resulted in a more active catalyst than pretreatment with H2 or He either when the feed contained H2O and SO2 or when it did not. The presence of H2O (0–10%) enhanced the catalyst activity, while SO2 (0–500 ppm) acted as a poison by decreasing the NOX conversion as compared to the SO2-free experiments. Kinetic and temperature programmed desorption (TPD) studies showed that a different reaction mechanism for the NOX reduction over In/Al2O3 applied when H2O and SO2 were present or absent in the feed. In the former case the reduction proceeds via the reaction of a reaction intermediate (CXHYOZN), formed by the interaction of C3H6 and NO2, with other activated NOX species. In the latter case, NOX species adsorbed on In react directly with CXHYOZ to form nitrogen and combustion products.
AbstractMetal ion release from metallic materials, e.g. metallic alloys and pure metals, implanted into the human body in dental and orthopedic surgery is becoming a major cause for concern. This review briefly provides an overview of both metallic alloys and pure metals used in implant materials in dental and orthopedic surgery. Additionally, a short section is dedicated to important biomaterials and their corrosive behavior in both real solutions and various types of media that model human biological fluids and tissues. The present review gives an overview of analytical methods, techniques and different approaches applied to the measurement of in vivo trace metals released into body fluids and tissues from patients carrying metal-on-metal prostheses and metal dental implants. Reference levels of ion concentrations in body fluids and tissues that have been determined by a host of studies are compiled, reviewed and presented in this paper. Finally, a collection of published clinical data on in vivo released trace metals from metallic medical implants is included.
AbstractInhibition for CO2 corrosion of N80 steel by quaternary alkynoxymethyl amine (IMC-80-Q) and imidazoline in 3% NaCl solution was investigated under static and flowing conditions by using modified rotating disk apparatus. The effects of flow velocity, concentration of inhibitor as well as entrained sand on inhibition performances were studied through weight loss test, scanning electron microscope (SEM) observation and electrochemical techniques including electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), linear polarization resistance. Electrochemical parameters such as Rt and Cd for IMC-80-Q exhibited peak-value-phenomenon at inhibitor concentration of 150 mg/L when flow rate was below 5 m/s, in contrast with 300 mg/L when flow rate was beyond 5 m/s. The optimum concentration was further enhanced by the entrained sand in the medium containing IMC-80-Q. The adsorption of IMC-80-Q under static condition obeyed Langmuir isotherm when inhibitor concentration was below 150 mg/L, but it changed into Freundlich isotherm as inhibitor concentration was beyond 150 mg/L. The optimum inhibitor concentration of imidazoline under static condition was 100 mg/L, but it increased to 200 mg/L at 5 m/s. Under static condition imidazoline exhibited better inhibition than IMC-80-Q did; in contrast, at 5 m/s IMC-80-Q exhibited better inhibition than imidazoline did. The critical flow velocity was a function of both inhibitor type (IMC-80-Q or imidazoline) and inhibitor concentration.
Highlights•A dendritic-line block copolymer (Den-PEtOx) was synthesized.•Den-PEtOx forms a micelle structure and encapsulates Rose Bengal in water.•Rose Bengal-encapsulated Den-PEtOx exhibits a phase transition at 63.5 °C.•Over 99% of Rose Bengal was removed via filtration above the LCST of Den-PEtOx.AbstractIssues related to water pollution by a variety of pollutants must be resolved for sustainable development. Over the past decades, several methods have been developed for pollutant removal from aqueous media. In this study, a dendritic-linear block copolymer (Den-PEtOx) was synthesized as a thermoresponsive non-ionic polymer surfactant, and its structure was confirmed by NMR, MALDI-TOF-MS, and SEC measurements. Den-PEtOx formed micelle structures with an average diameter of 121.6 nm and effectively encapsulated Rose Bengal (RB) red dye dissolved in aqueous media. RB-encapsulated Den-PEtOx exhibited a phase transition temperature at 62.4 °C owing to its thermoresponsive poly(2-ethyl-2-oxazoline) segment. Greater than 99% of RB in the aqueous media was successfully removed with Den-PEtOx via filtration above the phase transition temperature.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (64KB)Download full-size image
AbstractSince 1967, the alumina plants in the Marseilles area (Barasse and Gardanne) have been discharging the mineral residue (i.e., red mud) resulting from the alkaline processing of bauxite into the submarine Cassidaigne canyon (north-western Mediterranean Sea) through pipes situated at 320–330 m in depth. The Barasse pipe stopped being used in 1988. From 1987 to 1996, many decrees and regulations were promulgated by the French State to rule the conditions under which the Gardanne alumina refinery was authorized to dispose of the bauxite residue in the sea. The refinery was required: (i) to study the hydrodynamic circulation in the Cassidaigne canyon to evaluate the potential dispersion and transport of fine elements discharged into the water mass and their impact on the pelagic ecosystem; (ii) to survey the marine environment every five years to control the expansion and thickness of the red mud deposit and compare the evolution of the benthic macrofauna at representative sampling sites in the environment affected by the red mud discharge with that of reference sites outside of the red mud plume; (iii) to study the effect of the discharge on fishing activities; and (iv) to investigate the toxicity of the red mud, particularly its persistence, accumulation, interaction and effect on the marine ecosystem, paying special attention to the bio-accumulation of chromium and vanadium. A Scientific Committee was created to insure an independent evaluation of the studies promised by the manufacturer in response to the State’s regulations. Since the beginning of the 1960s, data have been accumulating on the structure and long-term functioning of the Cassidaigne bathyal ecosystem. This paper presents the collaborative efforts of the State-Manufacturer-Committee triplet and summarizes the main results obtained during the last period’s sea campaigns (1991–2007). This paper also illustrates how national regulations concerning manufacturers, such as Gardanne alumina refinery, have provided new knowledge about the structure and functioning of a bathyal ecosystem in the Cassidaigne canyon in the north-western Mediterranean Sea.
Highlights•The effect of H2O2 and albumin on 316L ss corrosion was studied for the first time.•A synergistic interaction of H2O2 and albumin was found regarding total release.•H2O2 favours formation of Fe and Cr oxides/hydroxyl oxides.•Albumin promotes dissolution of oxides and largely facilitates Fe and Cr release.•Significantly underestimated corrosion rate was induced by current ASTM standards.Abstract316L stainless steel has been widely used for orthopedic devices. Inflammatory response and direct contact with abundant proteins after implantation lead to corrosion issues of biomedical stainless steels. The effect of combination of H2O2 and albumin on the corrosion of 316L stainless steel has been investigated for the first time in simulated body fluids at 37 °C with electrochemical and long term immersion tests. ICP-MS measurement after 16 weeks immersion reveals that the total concentration in the presence of both species was substantially higher than physiological saline alone, and even higher than the sum of H2O2 alone and albumin alone. Electrochemical polarisation curves and electrochemical impendence spectra show that albumin accelerated anodic dissolution and suppressed cathodic reaction, while H2O2 promoted cathodic reaction. Also, H2O2 and/or albumin promoted meta-stable/stable pitting corrosion and decreased charge transfer resistance. Accelerated corrosion of 316L stainless steel in the presence of both species was attributed to the promoted formation of Fe oxides and CrOOH by H2O2 and the largely favoured dissolution of these oxides by the addition of albumin, significantly accelerating Fe and Cr release. The synergistic interaction between both species indicates significant underestimation of corrosion rate evaluated solely in physiological saline. These findings suggest the necessity of using more realistic solutions to evaluate corrosion resistance of biomedical alloys for future in-vitro studies.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (166KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•A simple strategy for the synthesis of metal-free and metallophthalocyanines.•Synthesis of novel metal-free and metallophthalocyanines containing four macrocycles.•Aggregation behavior was tested with different solvents and concentrations.AbstractThe synthesis of novel metal-free phthalocyanine 3 and metallophthalocyanines 4, 5 and 6 containing four 19-membered tetrathiadiaza macrocycles at the peripheral positions are described for the first time. All new compounds were characterized by a combination of elemental analysis and 1H NMR, 13C NMR, IR, UV–Vis and MS spectral data. The metallophthalocyanines 4, 5 and 6 have good solubility in organic solvents DMSO, DMF and THF. The aggregation behaviors of metal-free phthalocyanine 3 and metallophthalocyanines 4, 5 and 6 were investigated at different concentrations in DMF and THF. All metallophthalocyanines were found to exist in monomeric form in DMF and THF at concentrations between 10 × 10−6 and 2 × 10−6 mol dm−3. As the concentration increased to 5 × 10−5 mol dm−3, a deviation from ideality was observed due to the presence of aggregated species for all phthalocyanines.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractThe corrosion inhibition of aluminium in HCl solution in the presence of exudate gum from Raphia hookeri at temperature range of 30–60°C was studied using weight loss and thermometric techniques. The exudate gum acts as an inhibitor in the acid environment. The inhibition efficiency increases with increase in inhibitor concentration but decreases with an increase in temperature. The inhibitive effect of the Raphia hookeri exudate could be attributed to the presence of some phytochemical constituents in the exudate which is adsorbed on the surface of the aluminium metal. The exudate gum was found to obey Temkin adsorption isotherm and Kinetic–Thermodynamic Model of El-Awady et al. at all the concentrations and temperatures studied. Phenomenon of physical adsorption is proposed from the activation parameters obtained. Thermodynamic parameters reveal that the adsorption process is spontaneous.
Highlights•Polystyrene (PS) stabilized planar perovskite solar cells have been developed.•PS coverage can suppress component loss and moisture corrosion of perovskite film.•A PCE of 20.2% with improved stability for planar PSCs is achieved.AbstractPolystyrene (PS) is introduced to stabilize the perovskite component, grains and microstructures by forming PS-capped perovskite grains. It is found that the PS coverage has significant advantages in suppressing the component loss and phase separation, obstructing moisture corrosion and promoting crystal self-healing of perovskite films. Besides, with the PS involvement, exceeding 20% efficiency of a planar TiO2 based cell has been achieved by decreasing charge traps and nonradiative recombination.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (156KB)Download full-size image
AbstractOzone integrated with internal micro-electrolysis (O3/IE) was applied to electrochemically oxidize reactive red X-3B owing to its well-established synergetic effect in the present study. The final removal rates of color, COD, TOC and AOX were found to be 99%, 85%, 59%, and 74%, respectively, when the following optimal conditions were used: dyestuff concentration of 1 g/L with a pH of 9.0, a reaction temperature of 60 °C, 400 g of iron scraps with the diameter in the range of 0.9–2.0 mm and 10 g/h ozone flow rate. The dominant degradation mechanism of reactive red X-3B was elucidated by the addition of radical scavenger/enhancer. The results indicated that the formation of hydroxyl radicals in the presence of ozone was the major contributing factor in O3/IE system.
Highlights•Poly(5-cyanoindole) fibers are fabricated by electrospinning method.•A Zn/polymer secondary battery is constructed using poly(5-cyanoindole) fibers as cathode.•Improved electrochemical properties of poly(5-cyanoindole) fibers electrode are observed.•The Zn/poly(5-cyanoindole) fibers battery shows maximum discharge capacity of 107 Ah Kg−1.•The battery has excellent cyclic properties as well as fast charge/discharge performance.AbstractThis study aims to develop an aqueous zinc/electrospun poly(5-cyanoindole) fibers secondary battery system. Zn foil and ZnCl2 are used as anode active materials and the electrolytic solution, respectively. Poly(5-cyanoindole) synthesized by chemical oxidation is electrospun into fibers and used as cathode active materials. FTIR and NMR test are carried out to investigate the chemical structure of poly(5-cyanoindole). Surface properties of electrospun poly(5-cyanoindole) fibers are studied by SEM, TEM, and BET. The performance of zinc/electrospun poly(5-cyanoindole) fibers battery system is evaluated in term of electrical conductivity, cyclic voltammogram, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, discharge capacity and durability test. The cell achieves 2.0 V electromotive force with about 107–61 Ah Kg−1 discharge capacity at 0.2C–10C rate. At 800th cycle, the discharge capacity remains 80–57 Ah Kg−1 at 0.2C–2C rate, which is about 75–63% of the maximum discharge capacity. These results indicate that the cell has very excellent cyclic properties as well as fast charge/discharge properties. Electrospun poly(5-cyanoindole) fibers have been proved to be a better candidate than polyindole powder as cathode material in zinc/polymer battery.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (261KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•We have studied the effect of different sol–gel coatings on aluminum corrosion protection.•The thiol containing silane imparted hydrophobicity to the coated surface.•Amine silane rendered the coated surface more hydrophilic.•The thiol containing silane was found to give the best anti corrosion protection.•Amine containing silane provided the poorest performance.AbstractIn this paper we have studied the effect of addition of amino silane and sulfur silane by 2 wt% into a reference coating solution by using two basic silane coupling agents methyl-tri-ethoxy silane (MTEO) and glycidoxy-propyl-tri-ethoxy silane (GPTS) in 1:1 molar ratio by sol–gel technique. The change in hydrophobicity due to the addition of amino group and thiol group was investigated by contact angle study and sol–gel kinetics was studied by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The thermal resistance and surface morphology was analyzed by thermo gravimetric method and scanning electron microscope. The anti corrosion property of all three coatings were evaluated by potentiodynamic polarization study, AC impedance and salt spray method. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopic method was used to monitor the bonding mechanism of coating matrix with the metal surface. All type of investigations revealed that, addition of thiol group containing silane coating to the reference coating solution has caused remarkable improvement in hydrophobicity and corrosion resistance properties where as amine group rendred the surface less hydrophobic and showed no sign of improvement in corrosion protection. The most probable reason behind this improved performance is due to the additional hydrophobicity imparted by much less polar thiol group. But amino silane provided comparatively poor performance due to the presence of polar amine group.
AbstractQuartz is considered one of the less soluble minerals of the Earth's crust, and thus hardly affected by chemical weathering. Despite this, for more than forty years, it is clear that the formation of caves and peculiar solutional weathering dominated landforms in quartz-rich lithologies is common and shares several similarities to the well-known karstic ones in carbonate rocks. In the last thirty years great strides have been made in furthering our knowledge of the distribution of these forms around the world, and the geochemical processes involved. These studies have clearly shown that solutional weathering is a fundamental process, acting through intergranular dissolution of quartz increasing the rock porosity and decreasing the rock strength to erosion. This process has been described in the concepts of ‘arenization’ and ‘phantomization’ and the widespread evidences of the fundamental role of quartz solution in landform genesis has even developed to the extent of several geomorphologists reassessing the definition of the term ‘karst’, and its application to these peculiar lithologies. Nonetheless the process is complicated by several factors, related both to environmental conditions (water chemistry and availability) as well as to the compositional and textural characters of the lithology (presence of clays, iron hydroxides, carbonate cement, etc.). All these aspects have to be taken carefully in consideration in order to understand if solution is a dominant or accessory process in the landscape evolution. In this review the state of knowledge on the relevant chemical processes, weathering mechanisms, and speleogenesisk involved in the surface and underground karstification, and clear examples of quartz solution and solutional landforms from different world locations, are outlined and discussed.
Highlights•The mGO-ODA/MAPP composites were prepared for gas barrier and anti-corrosion studies.•The H2 and O2 gas barrier film was fabricated by spray coating of composite on nylon film.•The barrier film showed 95.0% reduction of O2GTR compared to the nylon film.•The lowest corrosion rate was 2.26 × 10−3 mm/year for the composite.AbstractThe octadecylamine (ODA) modified graphene oxide (mGO-ODA)/maleic anhydride grafted polypropylene (MAPP) composites (mGO-ODA/MAPP) were prepared and applied successfully as gas barrier and corrosion protection coating materials for the first time. The hydrophobic mGO-ODA sheets showed improved solubility in non-polar solvents with molar absorptivity was found to be 36 mL mg−1 cm−1 in ethylcyclohexane. FTIR analysis confirmed that mGO-ODA chemically interacts with MAPP. The mGO-ODA nanosheets were well exfoliated and dispersed in the MAPP matrix as confirmed by XRD analysis. The mGO-ODA/MAPP composites were coated on modified nylon sheets by a spray coating method, and the gas transmission rates (GTRs) of H2 and O2 were tested for these coated films. Cross-sectional FESEM showed the excellent attachment of these composite with the nylon film. The 60% mGO-ODA/MAPP-coated nylon film exhibited 93% and 112% improvement in elastic modulus values than the MAPP-coated and pure nylon films, respectively. Besides, 60% mGO-ODA/MAPP exhibited 94.1% and 95.0% reduction for H2GTR and O2GTR, respectively, compared to the pure nylon film. In addition, mGO-ODA/MAPP coated steel substrate exhibited excellent anticorrosion performance. The corrosion inhibition efficiency and corrosion rate were calculated to be 99.15% and 2.26 × 10−3 mm/year, respectively, for 60% mGO-ODA/MAPP.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (364KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Kraft pulp mill electrostatic precipitator ash leachate (EPAL) has a high salinity.•EPAL negatively affects biosludge formation in the effluent biotreatment.•COD removal decreased by 10% when EPAL was gradually applied and 15% in sudden doses.•TSS carryover increased by 148% when EPAL was gradually applied and 170% in sudden doses.AbstractThe electrostatic precipitators ash leachate (EPAL) from recovery boilers of kraft pulp mills is generated in processes dedicated to the removal of potassium and chloride salts seeking to avoid fouling and corrosion in pipes and equipment. However, the EPAL is rich in salts and has high electrical conductivity. Whenever it is sent to the effluent treatment plant (ETP), it can cause negative impacts to the biological process. It may jeopardize particularly the microbial community and the sludge bio-flocculation, causing sludge losses in the secondary clarifiers, reducing the overall efficiency of the effluent treatment plant. The objective of this research was to evaluate the influence of EPAL from the recovery boilers added to a typical effluent from a bleached eucalyptus kraft pulp mill in gradually increased doses and in sudden doses (shock loads) in the efficiency of the biological treatment. Three biological sequential batch reactors (R1, R2, R3) with a volume of 1000 ml each were tested. The Reactor R1 was operated as a reference and fed only with typical effluent from the pulp mill; Reactor R2 was fed with mill effluent with gradually increased doses of EPAL in fixed proportions until reaching a real industrial condition; Reactor R3 was fed with mill effluent and with sudden doses of EPAL. The reactors were operated in similar conditions, i.e., the concentration of dissolved oxygen (DO) was always kept higher than 2 mg L−1, COD:N:P ratio equal to 250:5:1 and hydraulic retention time of 12 h. Depending on the dose which was applied, the EPAL inhibited microbiological activity, reduced the efficiency of COD removal of the biological treatment (10% when EPAL was gradually applied and 15% in sudden doses) and increased the sludge carryover in the sedimentation phase (148% when EPAL was gradually applied and 170% in sudden dosages). Furthermore, the reduced efficiency and suspended solid carryover were more significant when sudden doses were applied compared to the application of gradual doses of the EPAL.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (58KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Synthesis of organochalcogen-containing propynylbenzamides under mild conditions.•Copper-catalyzed cross-coupling reactions of diorganyl dichalcogenides and amides.•Palladium-catalyzed carbon-carbon bond formation from carbon-chalcogen bond.•Palladium-catalyzed Sonogashira and Suzuki type reactions.AbstractThis work describes the copper-catalyzed Csp-chalcogen bond formation through cross-coupling reactions of propynylbenzamides and diorganyl dichalcogenides at room temperature, under open atmosphere. Generally, the reactions have proceeded very smoothly, affording the new class of organochalcogen-containing propynylbenzamides in good yields. Notably, this protocol showed to be tolerant to neutral, electron-donating and electron-withdrawing substituents present in both reaction substrates. In addition, the applicability of the carbon-chalcogen bond as a reactive site has been proved by successfully employment of the N-methyl-N-(3-(butylselanyl)prop-2-yn-1-yl)benzamide as a precursor in palladium-catalyzed Suzuki and Sonogashira type reactions.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (128KB)Download full-size image
AbstractHow to enhance tendon graft incorporation into bone tunnels for achieving satisfactory healing outcomes in patients with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) is one of the most challenging clinical problems in orthopaedic sports medicine. Several studies have recently reported the beneficial effects of Mg implants in bone fracture healing, indicating the use potential of Mg devices in promoting the tendon graft osteointegration. Here, we developed an innovative Mg-based interference screws for fixation of the tendon graft in rabbits underwent ACLR and investigated the biological role of Mg-based implants in the graft healing. The titanium (Ti) interference screw was used as the control. We demonstrated that Mg interference screw significantly accelerated the incorporation of the tendon graft into bone tunnels via multiscale analytical methods including scanning electronic microscopy/energy dispersive spectrometer (SEM/EDS), micro-hardness, micro-Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (μFTIR), and histology. Our in vivo study showed that Mg implants enhanced the recruitment of bone marrow stromal stem cells (BMSCs) towards peri-implant bone tissue, which may be ascribed to the upregulation of local TGF-β1 and PDGF-BB. Besides, the in vitro study revealed that higher Mg ions was beneficial to the improvement of capability in cell adhesion and osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs. Thus, the enhancement in cell migration, cell adhesion and osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs may contribute to an improved tendon graft osteointegration in the Mg group. Our findings in this work may further facilitate clinical applications of Mg-based interference screws for enhancing tendon graft-bone junction healing in patients indicated for ACLR.Statement of SignificanceHow to promote tendon-bone junction healing is one of the major challenging issues for satisfactory clinical outcomes in patients after ACL reconstruction. The improvement of bony ingrowth into the tendon graft-bone interface can enhance the tendon graft osteointegration. In this study, we applied Mg based interference screws to fix the tendon graft in rabbits and found the use of Mg screws could accelerate and significantly increase mineralized matrix formation at the tendon-bone interface in animals when compared to those with Ti screws. We elucidated the mechanism behind the favorable effects of Mg screws on the graft healing in both in vitro and in vivo studies from multiscale technologies. The optimized interface structure and function in Mg group may be ascribed to the improved cell migration capability, enhanced cell adhesion strength and promoted osteogenic differentiation ability of BMSCs under the stimuli of Mg ions degraded from implanted Mg screws. Our findings may help us broaden our thinking in the application potential of Mg interference screws in future clinical trials.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (156KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe ability of polyaniline (PANi) to act as a protective coating for mild steel corrosion in saline and acid was investigated by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. The impedance behaviour is best explained by a mediated redox reaction in which PANi passivates the metal surface and reoxidizes itself by dissolved oxygen. The effectiveness of such a process, which also provides the repassivation of damaged films, is greater in acids. The performance of PANi is further enhanced by the presence of a top coat to increase the diffusional resistance for the corrosion species.
Highlights•A successful corrosion inhibition application of Ru(III) complex on Ti alloy is applied.•The protection efficiency of Ru(III) complex reached 97%.•Ru(III) complex exhibited significant antimicrobial activity.•EIS results are in good agreement with the antimicrobial activity.•SEM scans confirmed the potential protection efficiency and impedance measurements.AbstractA ruthenium complex was prepared and structurally characterized using various techniques. Antibacterial and antifungal activities of ruthenium complex were evaluated. High significant antimicrobial activity against Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus and Candida albicans was recorded. Minor cytotoxicity records were reported at the highest concentration level using MTT assay. The influence of Cu(II), Cr(III), Fe(III) and Ru(III) metal ions of salen Schiff base on the corrosion resistance of Ti-alloy in 0.5 M HCl was studied. In vitro corrosion resistance was investigated using electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements and confirmed by surface examination via scanning electron microscope (SEM) technique. Both impedance and phase angle maximum (θmax) values were at maximum in the case of the ruthenium complex with promising antibacterial and antifungal activities. The surface film created by the ruthenium complex was highly resistant against attack or deterioration by bacteria. The EIS study showed high impedance values for the ruthenium complex with increasing exposure time up to 8 days. SEM images showed uniform distribution and adsorption of Ru(III) ions on Ti-alloy surface. The ruthenium complex, as a model of organic–inorganic hybrid complex, offered new prospects with desired properties in industrial and medical applications.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
Highlights•3-amino-2-methylbenzylalcohol inhibit mild steel corrosion in acid medium.•ATR-IR, contact angle, SEM, were used for steel surface characterization.•DFT and Monte Carlo simulations provide atomic and molecular level insights.•The theoretical data clearly support the experimental results obtained.AbstractThe inhibition of mild steel corrosion in 1 M HCl aqueous solution by 3-amino-2-methylbenzylalcohol (AMBA) was investigated using weight loss, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), potentiodynamic polarization (PDP) and cyclic voltammametry (CV) techniques. Attenuated total reflectance infrared spectroscopy (ATR-IR), contact angle (CA) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) measurements were carried out to confirm the adsorption of AMBA on mild steel surface. Computer simulations using density functional theory (DFT) and Monte Carlo methodologies were further employed to provide insights into the mechanism of interaction between the inhibitor and the steel surface. All the results confirmed that AMBA is a good corrosion inhibitor for mild steel in 1 M HCl. The addition of NaI was found to increase the inhibition effect of AMBA on mild steel to a considerable extent. DFT results reveal that the N atom together with the π-systems in the aromatic ring were the active sites for the interaction of AMBA with steel surface. Furthermore, the negative value of the adsorption energy obtained from the Monte Carlo simulation indicates the stability of the adsorbed inhibitor film on the steel surface.Graphical abstractEIS spectra and adsorption configuration of AMBA on Fe (110).Download high-res image (134KB)Download full-size image
AbstractSamples of pure aluminium and aluminium alloy were heated at 150 kPa and 130 °C in ethylene glycol (EG)–water mixture (volume ratio 1:1) for 172 h (8–12 h heating, 12–16 h pause). The corrosion of the metals was characterised by the transfer of Al into solution, changes in the surface morphology of the samples and their electrochemical behaviour. Formation of a white crystalline aluminium-organic precipitate was found during the heating of metals and some of its characteristics were determined. The effect of the addition of glycolic, citric and sebacic acid to the EG–water mixture on the metal corrosion behaviour was investigated. A significant corrosive action of glycolic acid and a protective effect of sebacic acid were found.
Highlights•About 1000 papers on the subject have been collected, systematized and reviewed.•About 50 deposition techniques have been described.•The most comprehensive review on the subject has been composed.AbstractSince various interactions among cells, surrounding tissues and implanted biomaterials always occur at their interfaces, the surface properties of potential implants appear to be of paramount importance for the clinical success. In view of the fact that a limited amount of materials appear to be tolerated by living organisms, a special discipline called surface engineering was developed to initiate the desirable changes to the exterior properties of various materials but still maintaining their useful bulk performances. In 1975, this approach resulted in the introduction of a special class of artificial bone grafts, composed of various mechanically stable (consequently, suitable for load bearing applications) implantable biomaterials and/or bio-devices covered by calcium orthophosphates (CaPO4) to both improve biocompatibility and provide an adequate bonding to the adjacent bones. Over 5000 publications on this topic were published since then. Therefore, a thorough analysis of the available literature has been performed and about 50 (this number is doubled, if all possible modifications are counted) deposition techniques of CaPO4 have been revealed, systematized and described. These CaPO4 deposits (coatings, films and layers) used to improve the surface properties of various types of artificial implants are the topic of this review.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
Highlights•The V(V) electrolytes with the addition of organic amines CTS, SA and NPAM and inorganic ammonium ATC, FAS and AFS remained stable from − 5 °C to 45 °C.•The electrochemical activity for V(V) electrolytes with the addition of CTS, ATC, AFS and FAS was improved compared with the pristine one.•Overall, the effect of the organic amines on the V(V) solution was better than the inorganic ammoniums.•The VRB with CTS performed well with an energy efficiency of more than 80% and good cycling stability at a current density of 50 mAcm− 2.AbstractSeveral organic amines with –NH2 functional groups and inorganic ammoniums with –NH4+ functional groups have been comparatively investigated as stabilizers of the V(V) electrolyte for vanadium redox flow battery (VRB) to improve its stability and electrochemical performance. Thermal stability tests showed that chitosan (CTS) and nonionic-type polyacrylamide (NPAM) additives with –NH2; ammonium thiocyanate (ATC), ferrous ammonium sulfate (FAS) and ammonium ferric sulfate (AFS) additives with –NH4+ could significantly improve the thermal stability of the V(V) electrolyte over a wide temperature range of − 5 °C to 45 °C. The electrochemical behavior of the V(V) electrolyte with these preferred additives was further studied by cyclic voltammetry (CV), steady state polarization, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and charge–discharge test. The results indicated that the electrochemical activity and reversibility for the V(V) electrolyte with the best additive CTS with –NH4+ was significantly improved compared with the additives with –NH2 and pristine one. In addition, the VRB employing the positive electrolyte with CTS exhibited excellent cycling stability and charge–discharge behavior with a high energy efficiency of 82.5%. The N-containing and O-containing functional groups of CTS in the V(V) electrolyte could modify the electrode and further improve the electrochemical performance and cycling stability of VRB.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (109KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Three indazole compounds are used as efficient corrosion inhibitors for copper in 3.0 wt% NaCl solution.•The order of inhibition ability obtained from EIS is in perfect agreement with the polarization results.•Theoretical calculations provide favorable support for the experimental results.•The results indicate that the halogenation in IA can improve its inhibitive ability.AbstractIn this work, three halogeno-indazole compounds were investigated for corrosion inhibition of copper in 3.0 wt% NaCl solution using potentiodynamic polarization measurement, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis. The electrochemical results revealed that all of these organics are mixed-type inhibitors with an inhibitive ability order: 4-CIA > 4-BIA > 4-FIA, which was further confirmed by observations with field emission scanning electron microscope (FE-SEM) and atomic force microscope (AFM). Their favourable performance is ascribed to the formation of inhibitor-adsorption films on copper. Furthermore, theoretical calculations showed the electronic structure of studied compounds and their optimized adsorption configurations on the copper surface.
AbstractThe effect of the Schiff base N,N′-bis (salicylaldehyde)-1,3-diaminopropane (Salpr) and its corresponding cobalt complex on the corrosion behaviour of steel in 1 M sulphuric acid solution were studied by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), and potentiodynamic polarization techniques. Spectrophotometry measurements were employed to investigate the stability of the complex in acid media. The inhibitive effect of Salpr and its stable octahedral cobalt complex is argued to their adsorption over the steel surface. Theoretical fitting of different isotherms, Langmuir, Flory–Huggins and the kinetic–thermodynamic model were tested to clarify the nature of adsorption. The data revealed that there might be non-ideal behaviour in the adsorption processes of Co(Salpr) complex on the steel surface. The Co(Salpr) could displace more water molecules from the steel surface than the corresponding Salpr. The bulky Co(Salpr) molecule could cover more than one active site.
AbstractIn this paper, an environmentally-friendly procedure has been introduced for electroless nickel plating on AZ61 magnesium alloy. Magnesium alloy was firstly etched in nitric acid and then treated in a Cerium–lanthanum–permanganate (CLP) conversion coating bath. Finally, the electroless Ni–P deposition was carried out on the conversion coating from a sulfate solution. The microstructure of the CLP conversion coating was observed using Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), while the composition was analyzed by Energy Dispersive X-Ray Spectroscopy (EDX). Subsequently, deposited Ni–P coating was also characterized by its chemical composition, crystalline structure, morphology, and corrosion resistance. A uniform and amorphous nickel coating with high phosphorus content was successfully deposited on the pre-applied chemical conversion coating on the AZ61 alloy. An obvious passivation occurred for the nickel coating during the anodic polarization in 3.5 wt.% NaCl solution. Compared with the bare and CLP treated substrates, the Ni–P deposits showed more nobler corrosion potential and also lower corrosion current density. Open circuit potential (OCP) measurements and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) experiments were carried out in 3.5 wt.% NaCl to determine the real anticorrosion performance of the Ni–P deposits.Highlights► A novel and green method has been used for electroless Ni–P plating on AZ61 alloy. ► Rare earth-Permanganate conversion coating acts as pretreatment for Ni–P plating. ► A compact and uniform deposit with high phosphorous content was obtained. ► The coating shows very noble corrosion potential and high anti-corrosion performance.
AbstractA newly synthesized glycine derivative (termed GlyD), 2-(4-(dimethylamino)benzylamino)acetic acid hydrochloride, was used to inhibit uniform and pitting corrosion processes of Al in 0.50 M KSCN solutions (pH 6.8) at 25 °C. For uniform corrosion inhibition study, Tafel extrapolation, linear polarization resistance and impedance methods were used, complemented with SEM examinations. An independent method of chemical analysis, namely ICP-AES (inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry) was also used to test validity of corrosion rate measured by Tafel extrapolation method. GlyD inhibited uniform corrosion, even at low concentrations, reaching a value of inhibition efficiency up to 97% at a concentration of 5 × 10−3 M. Results obtained from the different corrosion evaluation techniques were in good agreement. This new synthesized glycine derivative was also used to control pit nucleation and growth on the pitted Al surface based on cyclic polarization, potentiostatic and galvanostatic measurements. The pitting potential (Epit) and the repassivation potential (Erp) increased by the addition of GlyD. Thus GlyD suppressed pit nucleation and propagation. Nucleation of pit was found to take place after an incubation time (ti). The rate of pit nucleation and growth decreased with increase in inhibitor concentration. Morphology of pitting was also studied as a function of the applied anodic potential and solution temperature. Cross-sectional view of pitted surface revealed the formation of large distorted hemispherical and narrow deep pits. GlyD was much better than Gly in controlling uniform and pitting corrosion processes of Al in these solutions.
Highlights?Hydrogenase increased the corrosion process of mild steel in Tris-HCl medium.?The surface of mild steel was attacked at grain boundaries with hydrogenase.?In presence of hydrogenase, pits were with a square shape and depth up to 10 µm.?Enzyme activity and concentration had a major role in the corrosion increase.?Hydrogenase is proved to induce cathodic depolarization on mild steel.AbstractThe influence of [Fe-Fe]-hydrogenase from Clostridium acetobutylicum on the anaerobic corrosion of mild steel was studied and the use of a dialysis bag to contain the enzyme in the close vicinity of the electrode surface led to conclusive tests. Electrochemical measurements (open-circuit potential monitoring, corrosion rate evolution, impedance), and surface and medium analysis, all confirmed the strong effect of hydrogenase to exacerbate the corrosion process. Electrolysis performed at a cathodic potential proved that hydrogenase catalysed the electrochemical reduction of protons or water into dihydrogen by direct electron transfer, demonstrating the involvement of hydrogenase in cathodic depolarisation.
AbstractCarbonate dissolution during the process of burial and evolution by percolating acid fluid was simulated using core plugs to analyze the characteristics and controlling factors of Cambrian carbonate rock dissolution in the Tarim Basin. The results showed that mineral composition and reservoir space type control selective dissolution. In the carbonate rock strata with high calcite content, the calcite is likely to dissolve first to form secondary dissolution pores; gypsum and anhydrite in the carbonate rock can be dissolved to form mold pores in contemporaneous and penecontemporaneous stages. Porous carbonate has mainly enlargement of matrix pores, with porosity and permeability increasing correspondingly, but not obviously. In comparison, dominant channels for fluid are likely to occur in fractured carbonate or porous carbonate forming cracks under high pressure, resulting in a relative reduction in the dissolution volume, but great increase of permeability. With the rise of temperature and pressure, corrosion ability of acid fluid to carbonate rock increases first and then decreases, there exists an optimum range of temperature and pressure for dissolution, which corresponds to the buried depth of 2 250−3 750 m of the Cambrian. Considering reservoir characteristics of the study area, it is concluded that calcite in the penecontemporaneous period is the material basis for the development of dissolution pore, and carbonate rock were mainly dissolved by early atmospheric fresh water, superimposed and reformed to form high quality reservoirs by multiple acid fluids including deep hydrothermal fluid and acid fluid generated during the process of organic thermal evolution under burial condition.
Highlights•pH sensitive microcapsules (pH-MC) were synthesized by emulsion polymerization.•Aluminum nitrate was released from pH-MC in both alkaline and acidic environments.•Decomposition of shell matrix occurred prior to release of core materials.•pH-MC containing cerium nitrate suppressed corrosion of steel sheet.AbstractA pH sensitive microcapsule (pH-MC) which can be decomposed in corrosive environments on metal substrates was synthesized and its release behavior was investigated. Ester chains which can be hydrolyzed under both alkaline and acidic conditions were successfully introduced into the shell wall of the pH-MC. In separate sets of experiments, cerium nitrate was encapsulated as a corrosion inhibitor, whereas aluminum nitrate was used to investigate the release property due its amphoteric nature. Study of the release behavior with the aluminum nitrate-containing pH-MC (Al-MC) demonstrated that the Al-MCs are sensitive to acidic and basic environments and are inactive in neutral environments. It was also found that hydrolysis of the ester chains occurred prior to release of the core materials. When immersed in an electrolyte with the cerium nitrate-containing pH-MC (Ce-MC), the open circuit potential (OCP) of a steel substrate showed a nobler potential than when immersed in an electrolyte without Ce-MC.
Publisher SummaryThis chapter focuses on generic completion installation activities that can affect the running of the completion and initiation of flow, particularly wellbore clean-outs and running tubing. Designing a safe and effective completion without considering how to install it is impossible. Safety is paramount and safe installation activities may require additional equipment and more time, for example, adequate barriers and pressure testing. Design modifications that safely and reliably speed up the installation activities should therefore be encouraged. Wellbore clean-outs may be required on multiple occasions, for example, before and after perforating or before running the lower completion and then again before running the upper completion. Before handing the well over to production, the well might be flowed to clean it up. This is particularly common on subsea wells. The purpose of the clean-up flow is to enable the well to flow once handed over and to remove any material that could settle or set before production. On the other hand, the procedures tell the completion installation team how to install the completion in a safe, unambiguous way and to capture lessons learnt. It does not imply that whoever is installing the completion lacks competence to decide the best method for constructing the completion, written procedures allow all parties to assess and review the operations.
AbstractStrontium Zinc Zirconium hexaferrite-polyaniline composite was synthesized by oxidative chemical polymerization of aniline using ammoniumperoxydisulphate as an oxidizing agent in an aqueous medium at 0°c ± 5°c. The synthesized composite were characterized by FTIR, XRD and SEM. The composite was evaluated as corrosion inhibitor for mild steel in 2M H2SO4 solution using gravimetric method. Inhibition efficiency increases with increase in concentration of inhibitor ranging from 100 to 500ppm. Results revealed that the composite act as good inhibitor and could serve as an effective corrosion inhibitor for mild steel during industrial cleaning process. Potentiodynamic polarization, Electrochemical Impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and Open circuit potential (OCP) techniques were also carried out to prove corrosion efficiency of the composite at room temperature.
Highlights•Mv10B is effective mixed type inhibitor in 1 M HCl.•Inhibition efficiency of compounds increases with increasing concentration.•Adsorption of compounds on steel surface obeys Langmuir's isotherm.•AFM method shows the existence of protective film of Mv10B on metal surface.•Theoretical calculations provide good support to experimental results.AbstractThe inhibition ability of 4-[bis[4-(dimethylamino)phenyl]methyl]-N,N-dimethylaniline (Mv10B) on carbon steel in 1 M HCl solution was studied by electrochemical techniques. Mv10B inhibited carbon steel corrosion in 1 M HCl solution significantly and the inhibition efficiency increased with Mv10B concentration. Potentiodynamic polarization results showed that Mv10B was a mixed-type inhibitor. The adsorption of Mv10B on steel surface followed Langmuir adsorption isotherm. The inhibition performance of Mv10B was also evidenced by AFM images. Computational investigations of studied inhibitor are performed by using HF method with 6-31++G(d,p) and 6-311++G(d,p) basis sets.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
Highlights•A novel organic-inorganic flow battery system using low-cost elements.•For a membrane-less configuration the open-circuit voltage is 1.17–1.59•The average coulombic efficiency is 71.8% over 20 cycles.•Voltammetry and dissolution experiments identify the performance limitations.AbstractThe capital cost of conventional redox flow batteries is relatively high (>USD$ 200/kWh) due to the use of expensive active materials and ion-exchange membranes. This paper presents a membrane-less hybrid organic-inorganic flow battery based on the low-cost elements zinc (<USD$ 3 Kg−1) and para-benzoquinone (<USD$ 8 Kg−1). Redox potential and voltammetric studies show that the open-circuit voltage of the battery is 1.17–1.59 V over a wide range of pH. Half-cell charge-discharge and dissolution experiments indicate that the negative electrode reaction is limiting due to the presence of chemical side reactions on the electrode surface. The positive electrode redox reactions are not affected and exhibit (half-cell) coulombic efficiencies of >92.7% with the use of carbon felt electrodes. In the presence of a fully oxidized active species close to its solubility limit, dissolution of the deposited anode is relatively slow (<2.37 g h−1 cm−2) with an equivalent corrosion current density of <1.9 mA cm−2. In a parallel plate flow configuration, the resulting battery was charge-discharge cycled at 30 mA cm−2 with average coulombic and energy efficiencies of c.a. 71.8 and c.a. 42.0% over 20 cycles, respectively.
Highlights•Fouling of MBR for megacity municipal wastewater was studied with plum rain season.•Plum rain season reduced pollutant removal because of organic carbon shortage.•Plum rain season increased inorganic particles and further enhanced pore blocking.•Plum rain season led to severer biofouling, but inhibited cake layer formation.AbstractThis study assessed membrane biofouling and its gel layer of anoxic/oxic membrane bioreactor (A/O-MBR) for megacity municipal wastewater treatment during plum rain season, which was continuous rainy weather, in Yangtze River Delta, China. A laboratory-scale A/O-MBR was operated to treat the municipal wastewater from Quyang wastewater treatment plant, which located at the typical megacity of Shanghai in Yangtze River Delta, from April to July accompanying with plum rain season. As reactor performance showed, CODCr, NH4+-N, TN, TP of the influent gradually decreased during plum rain season, and inhibited pollutant removal due to organic carbon shortage. However, dissolve inorganic carbon and inorganic components in mixed liquid had an obvious increase under rainy weather. Membrane filtration results indicated that plum rain season enhanced pore blocking behavior, further leading to the serious membrane biofouling but inhibiting gel layer formation. Additionally, gel layer analysis predicted that plum rain season led to plenty of inorganic components and precipitate flew into A/O-MBR reactor. Inorganic components with elements of Ca, Mg Ba, Fe, Al and Si seriously blocked membrane pores. Those components also accumulated into gel layer in the form of SiO2, CaCO3, CaSiO3, MgNH4PO4, BaCO3, AlPO4, etc. Consequently, plum rain season enhanced pore blocking behavior and led to severe membrane biofouling but with the inhibition of gel layer formation.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (316KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe colloidal stability of halloysite clay nanotubes dispersion is reviewed showing the strategy and the mechanism to obtain stable systems in water and apolar solvents. The selective modification of halloysite inner/outer surfaces can be achieved by exploiting electrostatic interactions. The adsorption of anionic surfactants onto the halloysite cavity allows generating inorganic cylindrical micelles that can be separated from the solvent. On the other hand, the functionalization of halloysite shell by positively charged surfactants drives to obtain stable water-in-oil emulsions. The interactions with ionic and nonionic polymers alters the dispersability of halloysite due to electrostatic and steric effects that are strongly dependent on the nanoarchitecture of the hybrid systems.Modified nanotubes by selective interactions lead to the formation of colloidal systems with tuneable surface properties and controlled colloidal stability adjusted to the solvent polarity. These dispersions are perspectives nanocarriers for substances such as antioxidants, biocides, drugs and corrosion inhibitors, to be released in response to external stimuli.
Highlights•PES membranes of 30,000 g mol−1 were modified by UV photografting.•UV photografting using PEG/Al2O3 nanoparticles with different concentrations were studied.•Pure water flux and solute rejection of the membranes increased after modification.•Hydrophilicity of PES membranes improved for enhanced surfaces.•Membranes photomodified with PEG/Al2O3 exhibited the best antifouling properties.AbstractPolyethersulfone ultrafiltration membranes prepared via immersion precipitation with similar pore size were modified using UV irradiation with two nano-sized hydrophilic compounds of a different nature (an organic compound and a metal oxide). Effects of PEG/Al2O3 nanoparticles on membrane structure and the resulting performance were compared to determine the material with the best antifouling properties. Membranes were characterized by hydrophilicity (water contact angle, porosity, equilibrium water content and average pore radius), surface microscopic techniques (ATR-FTIR, SEM, EDX and AFM) and cross-flow ultrafiltration experiments (hydraulic permeability, membrane resistance and antifouling measurements). Membrane antifouling properties were analyzed by several fouling/rinsing cycles using feed solutions of PEG of 35,000 g mol−1 with a concentration of 5 g L−1. Water contact angle measurements, ATR-FTIR spectra, SEM images and EDX analysis indicated the presence of PEG/Al2O3 nanoparticles on the membrane surface. All UV-grafted membranes had higher hydraulic permeability than the unmodified membrane. Furthermore, polyethersulfone membranes photografted with 2.0 wt% PEG and 0.5 wt% Al2O3 displayed superior antifouling properties and desirable performance compared to all membranes tested. Therefore, this study proved that UV photografting of PEG/Al2O3 onto membrane surfaces is an appropriate technique for modifying polyethersulfone membranes to minimize membrane fouling.
SummaryThe use of a systems approach to conveyor maintenance that includes selection of proper lubricants, automatic lubrication equipment, effective on-line cleaning equipment, and an effective service program will result in increased operating efficiency and improved product quality due to reduced contamination. And remember maintenance doesn't cost, it pays.
AbstractThe lithium/sulfur battery is a promising electrochemical system with high capacity, which is well-known to undergo a complex multistep reaction during the discharge process. Two types of electrolytes including poly(ethylene glycol) dimethyl ether (PEGDME)-based and 1,3-dioxolane (DOL)/dimethoxyethane (DME)-based electrolytes were investigated here. Furthermore, LiNO3 additive was introduced into the electrolyte in order to effectively eliminate the overcharge effect. The lithium sulfur battery with 1.0 M LiN(CF3SO2)2 in PEGDME with 0.1 M LiNO3 shows highly stable reversible capacity of 624.8 mAh g−1 after 200 cycles and improved average coulombic efficiency of 98%.Highlights► Two types of electrolytes were investigated here. ► LiNO3 additive was introduced into the electrolyte to eliminate the overcharge effect. ► Highly stable reversible capacity of 624.8 mAh g−1 after 200 cycles can be obtained. ► Average coulombic efficiency of 98% can be achieved.
AbstractA novel and fairly efficient chemoselective one-pot method has been developed for the synthesis of both 2-phenylamino-5-alkylthio-1,3,4-thiadiazole and bis-(2-phenylamino-5-alkylthio-)1,3,4-thiadiazole derivatives from phenylthiosemicarbazide and CS2.
AbstractENEL is Italy's main electrical energy producer with an installed thermal capacity of over 35,000 MW. For the production of both industrial and demineralized waters in coastal power plants, desalination processes (MSF and VC evaporators and seawater RO) are widely used. As far as MSF evaporators concerns, 28 units are operating: the capacity of each unit ranges between 25 and 100 t/h for a total capacity of about 1,500 t/h of desalinated water. MSF evaporators have been installed since late seventies up to now, optimizing time by time and case by case design parameters (construction materials, in particular) and operating conditions. Presently, 20% of the MSF units are acid-conditioned and 80% are operated with commercial organic scale inhibitors. To define a list of recommended products, pilot tests are in progress at the Piacenza Central Laboratory of ENEL. As far as VC evaporators concerns, 3 units have been installed since 1980, with a capacity of 20 t/h each. For solving problems during operation, some modifications have been made to the materials of the tube bundles, to the coatings of tube shells, and to the steam compressors. As far as seawater RO plants concerns, beyond one very small unit (3 t/h) already in operation for the production of potable water, 4 units are under construction or commissioning for industrial water production: the capacity of each unit ranges between 20 and 150 t/h for a total capacity of 270 t/h of desalinated water. To define, case by case, the optimal pretreatment technology's pattern and to test the various types of seawater membranes, the Piacenza Central Laboratory has under advanced commissioning a containerized SWRO pilot plant with a capacity of 2 t/h.
Highlights•Novel diaminobenzene film on ERGO was fabricated by potentiodynamic method.•p-DAB@ERGO/GC shows excellent activity towards nitrite.•The proposed sensor exhibits lowest detection limit and wide linear range.•Modified electrode was successfully applied to the analysis in water samples.AbstractAn electrode comprised of a polydiaminobenzene (p-DAB) film formed on electrochemically reduced graphene oxide (ERGO) on a glassy carbon (GC) (p-DAB@ERGO/GC) was fabricated using a potentiodynamic method for the sensitive and selective determination of nitrite in the presence of a common interference. The p-DAB@ERGO/GC film-modified electrode surfaces were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), Raman spectroscopy, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and cyclic voltammetry. The film fabrication was initiated via the NH2 groups of DAB, which was confirmed by XPS from the peaks corresponding to NH (396.7 eV), NH (399.4 eV), NN (400.2 eV), and N+H (402.2 eV). The Raman spectra revealed the characteristic D and G bands at 1348 and 1595 cm− 1, respectively, which confirmed the fabrication of GO on the GC electrode, and the ratio of the D and G bands was increased after the electrochemical reduction of GO. The surface coverage of the modified electrode was 8.16 × 10− 11 mol cm− 2. The p-DAB@ERGO/GC film-modified electrode was used successfully for the determination of nitrite ions. The p-DAB@ERGO/GC film-modified electrode exhibited superior activity for the determination of nitrite compared to the bare GC and p-DAB@GC electrodes. The amperometric current increased linearly with increasing nitrite concentration from 7.0 × 10− 6 to 2.0 × 10− 2 M. The detection limit was 30 nM (S/N = 3). In addition, the modified electrode was used successfully to determine the nitrite ion concentration in the presence of a 100-fold excess of common interferents. The practical application of the modified electrode was demonstrated by determining the nitrite ion concentration in water samples.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (205KB)Download full-size image
AbstractElectrokinetic geosynthetics (EKGs) were developed about a decade ago, producing a material that did not experience the same corrosion problems as metal electrodes when used in electro-osmotic (EO) dewatering applications. The conductive polymeric material from which EKGs are made has the additional advantage of being able to be formed into a variety of shapes, including drainage tubes such as those used in this study. One of the primary concerns regarding EO dewatering applications is the rate of energy consumption. This paper reports experiments at three different scales, on different mine tailings materials, that illustrates the potentially misleading results obtained from small scale laboratory tests. Using large, outdoor tests, power consumption rates for treating a kaolinitic mineral sands tailings and a smectitic diamond tailings were found to be up to 30 times lower than the power consumption rates obtained from laboratory tests using small samples in a purpose built EO cell. The primary reason for the improved performance is thought to be the lower voltage gradient used in the field tests, plus the geometric advantages offered by a field layout where a greater volume of material is exposed to the EO effect than only the material directly between the electrodes, which is the case in the EO cell tests. Finally, in the field tests the EO treatment caused the early development of vertical cracks in the tailings, resulting in increased exposure of the tailings to the effects of solar drying. This effect cannot obviously be reproduced in the EO cell laboratory tests, and can be a major advantage for the in situ treatment of mine tailings lagoons, where in some materials the onset of cracking is significantly delayed by the development of an impermeable surface crust.
Publisher SummaryThis chapter presents an overview of the sources of nitrogen (N) input to grazed grasslands, the dynamics of N in grassland soils, and environmental impacts of N losses. It discusses the role of inhibitors in improving N bioavailability and mitigating N losses. As N exists in many different inorganic and organic forms in soils and these N forms undergo several transformations, an understanding of N dynamics can help to illustrate the importance of N bioavailability and its fate in the environment. A brief summary of N inputs and dynamics in grazed pastures is presented in the chapter. The environmental impacts of N losses are outlined. The role of inhibitors in improving the N bioavailability and mitigating N losses is illustrated. A brief description is presented of the research on the use of inhibitors in New Zealand. The gaps and the limitations from the existing information are identified. The main research needs to devise mitigation strategies with inhibitors are presented.
Highlights•The review outlined latest applications of iron-based materials in uranium remediation.•Remediation technologies or mechanisms involved in uranium removal are reviewed.•The effectiveness and safety considerations of the using iron-based materials were discussed.•Future directions on uranium remediation and iron-based materials development were proposed.AbstractRemediating uranium contamination is of worldwide interest because of the increasing release of uranium from mining and processing, nuclear power leaks, depleted uranium components in weapons production and disposal, and phosphate fertilizer in agriculture activities. Iron-based technologies are attractive because they are highly efficient, inexpensive, and readily available. This paper provides an overview of the current literature that addresses the application of iron-based technologies in the remediation of sites with elevated uranium levels. The application of iron-based materials, the current remediation technologies and mechanisms, and the effectiveness and environmental safety considerations of these approaches were discussed. Because uranium can be reduced and reoxidized in the environment, the review also proposes strategies for long-term in situ remediation of uranium. Unfortunately, iron-based materials (nanoscale zerovalent iron and iron oxides) can be toxic to microorganisms. As such, further studies exploring the links among the fates, ecological impacts, and other environmentally relevant factors are needed to better understand the constraints on using iron-based technologies for remediation.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (247KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Ballast water sediments contain high diverse bacteria community.•Sulfate reduction and oxidization bacteria are largely detected in ballast tank sediment.•The undesirable bacteria in sediments could reduce the efficiency of ballast water exchange.AbstractThis study aims to reveal the composition and influencing factors of bacterial communities in ballast tank sediments. Nine samples were collected and their 16S rRNA gene sequences were analyzed by high-throughput sequencing. The analysis results showed the Shannon index in ballast tank sediments was in the range of 5.27–6.35, which was significantly higher than that in ballast water. Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi and Proteobacteria were the dominant phyla and accounted for approximately 80% of all 16S rRNA gene sequences of the samples. Besides, the high contents of sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB) and sulfur oxidizing bacteria were detected in sediments, indicating that the corrosion of metal caused by SRB might occur in ballast tank. In addition, the trace of human fecal bacteria and candidate pathogens were also detected in ballast tank sediments, and these undesirable microbes reduced the effect of ballast water exchange. Furthermore, C and N had significant effects on the bacterial community composition in ballast tank sediments. In conclusion, our findings suggest that the proper management and disposal of the ballast tank sediments should be considered in order to reduce the negative impact and ecological risks related to ballast water and sediments.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (375KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Sub-micrometer mesoporous silica containers were prepared for loading corrosion inhibitor.•Controlled release of 8-HQ from the containers was found in response to pH change.•The self-healing ability of the epoxy coatings containing containers was proved by SVET.AbstractIn the present work, the sub-micrometer containers were prepared using mesoporous silica particles (SBA-15) with parallel channels as reservoir and 8-hydroxyquinoline as corrosion inhibitor. Layer-by-layer assembling was used to construct a shell of polyelectrolytes around the silica particles. Release of 8-hydroxyquinoline from sub-micrometer containers was studied in response to acidic or alkaline pH values. The results of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) show the improvement of corrosion resistance of epoxy coatings containing sub-micrometer containers. Self-healing ability of the epoxy coatings was provided by sub-micrometer containers, as evidenced by the results of scanning vibrating electrode technique (SVET).
AbstractThis study examines the effect of cobalt addition on the corrosion resistance of low alloy steel in a 10 wt.% sulfuric acid solution at room temperature. All specimens show passive behaviors over the potential range, 0.5–1.55 VSCE, and the passive current density decreased with increasing Co addition. The Co-containing steels also show higher polarization resistance and lower corrosion rate. The beneficial effect of Co is attributed to the formation of a uniform and continuous rust layer due to an interaction between Co and other elements such as Fe, O and S.Highlights► The corrosion rate decreased with increasing Co content ranging from 0 to 0.1 wt.%. ► Surface analyses showed that the addition of Co created a thick and uniform rust layer. ► The interaction between Co and Fe and other elements improved the formation of a continuous and adherent rust layer.
AbstractPhase separation phenomena in metallic glass systems are reviewed. First, a brief introduction to the enhanced glass forming ability and the phase separation in metallic glass systems is given. Nano-scale phase separation observed in frozen-in glass is discussed in marginal glass formers such as Pd-, Fe, Al-base metallic glass systems as well as in bulk glass formers in Cu-, Zr- and Mg-base metallic glass systems. Since retention of glass forming ability is essential in phase separating glasses, thermodynamic and kinetic conditions for enhanced glass forming ability is introduced. Several thermodynamic aspects for decomposition by liquid–liquid phase separation which include stability conditions, decomposition in the multicomponent system, types of miscibility gap, calculation of bimodal and spinodal curves are introduced as a background for design of metallic glasses phase separating in the liquid state. The main mechanisms for phase separation are nucleation and growth mechanism and spinodal decomposition mechanism. The metallic glass systems which include an atom pair with large positive enthalpy of mixing decompose by liquid–liquid phase separation separate in the liquid state, forming two typical types of microstructure: droplet or interconnected type microstructures depending on the mechanism of phase separation. By calculation of the tile line, it is possible to design phase separating metallic glasses with high glass forming ability. Eventually, bulk-type phase separating metallic glasses with mm scale can be synthesized. Moreover, if there is a group of three atoms with large positive enthalpy of mixing in the liquid state in the multicomponent system, occurrence of three phase separation in the liquid state is possible. There are several parameters affecting the microstructure evolution during phase separation, which includes glass transition and critical temperatures, shape of bimodal and spinodal curves and quenching conditions. Phase separation in the solid state of the frozen-in glasses can give a clue on the phase separation prior to crystallization or direct nanocrystallization from the amorphous matrix. The amplitude of the composition fluctuation with a fixed wavelength can grow by heating in the solid state, if the spinodal decomposition. Finally, some advantages of phase separation phenomena in metallic glass systems are highlighted.
AbstractA multi-residue analytical method based on high-performance liquid chromatographic separation, electrospray ionization with tandem mass spectrometric detection (HPLC/MS–MS) was developed for the simultaneous analysis of 46 basic, neutral and acidic compounds covering a wide range of polarity (log KOW < 0–5.9). The compound list included selected iodinated contrast media, analgesics, anti-inflammatories, stimulants, beta-blockers, antibiotics, lipid regulators, anti-histamines, psychiatric drugs, herbicides, corrosion inhibitors and the gastric acid regulator pantoprazole. The main feature of the presented method was a simultaneous solid phase extraction (SPE) of all analytes followed by simultaneous separation and detection by HPLC/MS–MS with electrospray ionization in both positive and negative polarization within the same chromatogram. Optimization of electrospray drying gas temperature resulted in using a temperature gradient on the ion source. Six different polymeric sorbents for SPE were compared with respect to recoveries, taking into account the specific surface of each sorbent. Method quantitation limits (MQL) in surface and seawater ranged from 1.2 to 28 ng/L, in wastewater from 5.0 to 160 ng/L, respectively. In order to demonstrate the applicability of the method, river water, treated wastewater and seawater were analyzed.
Highlights•50 ppm of AMP had marginal effect on the corrosion of X80 steel.•Corrosion rate was decreased as the AMP concentration increased further.•Flow was found to accelerate the propagation of pits.•The combination of PZ and AMP could not inhibit pitting corrosion efficiently.•AMP-PZ inhibited corrosion owing to both neutralization and adsorption effects.AbstractThe corrosion of steels in the supercritical CO2 environment with impurities in a carbon capture, utilization and storage system has attracted great interests in recent years. In this work, corrosion inhibition mechanisms of the residual 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol and piperazine from the CO2 capture process on X80 steel within an impure supercritical CO2 environment were investigated by weight-loss method and surface analysis techniques. The results showed that a small amount of 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol had marginal effect on the corrosion of steel. Corrosion rate was decreased as the 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol concentration increased further. When 100 ppm 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol + 50 ppm piperazine was added, a lowest corrosion rate was observed, reaching 0.41mm/a. Meanwhile, pitting corrosion was observed under all conditions. The combination of 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol and piperazine cannot inhibit pitting corrosion efficiently, while flow accelerated the propagation of pits in the presence of 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol. FeSO4 was confirmed as the corrosion product for all conditions. RNH3+, PZH+, Fe2O3 and Fe3O4 were detected in the corrosion products depending on the test conditions. The results indicated that the inhibition mechanism of piperazine and 2-amino-2-methyl-1-propanol was attributed to both the neutralization and adsorption effects on the steel surface. A non-uniform adsorption inhibition mechanism is proposed based on these test results.
Highlights•High extent mass recovery of network magnetic alginate hydrogel beads.•High adsorption ability for MB in aqueous solutions.•High regeneration efficiency and recovery extent (RCE) in aqueous media.•Response surface methodology was used to optimize the removal efficiency.AbstractThis work goes inside the understanding of organic pollutants adsorption mechanism over network alginate hydrogel beads based on immobilized bio-sourced PC@Fe3O4-NPs (PC@Fe3O4-NPs@Alginate) and highlights its high extent mass recovery in aqueous media. The samples were successfully synthesized, we previously developed porous carbon (PC), which, was used to elaborate PC@Fe3O4-NPs via simple in situ coprecipitation (PC@ Fe3O4-NPs), which was encapsulated by alginate-Ca2+ via the blend crosslinking method. The structural, textural, chemical and morphological proprieties of as prepared materials were studied by XRD, FTIR, Raman spectroscopy, nitrogen adsorption-desorption, XPS, SEM and TEM. The adsorption kinetic and isotherm data were well fitted to the pseudo-second-order and Langmuir models. Magnetic particles exhibited an excellent ability to adsorb methylene blue (MB) from aqueous solutions with maximum MB adsorption capacity of 180.42 mg g−1 (PC@Fe3O4 NPs powder) and 49.66 mg g−1 (beads based PC@Fe3O4-NPs@Alginate). Response surface methodology was used to optimize the removal efficiency of MB from aqueous solution and optimum parameters were determined. Magnetic beads based PC showed good magnetic propriety, long-term stability, regeneration capabilities and high extent mass recovery.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (285KB)Download full-size image

Highlights•Cu NPs can greatly enhance the reductive reactivity of GR.•GR/Cu NPs is more reactive than GR/Cu2+ system.•The Cu NPs loading on GR is optimized.•GR/Cu NPs remains high reactivity at pH from 7 to 10.•GR/Cu NPs is less susceptible to the presence of CO32– and humic acid compared to pure GR.AbstractThis paper describes the reduction of p-nitrophenol by green rusts (GRs) interlayered with common inorganic anions (Cl−, SO42− and CO32−). Modifying of GRs with zero-valent Cu nanoparticles (Cu0 NPs) can greatly enhance the reductive reactivity of GRs via the formation of a galvanic couple between the GRs and the Cu0 NPs, as confirmed by an increased corrosion current. The direct addition of Cu0 NPs excludes the possible formation of less active mono-valent Cu in the GRs/Cu2+ system. Oxidation of GRs does not occur upon the addition of Cu0 NPs, thus a decline in electron transfer from the oxidized GRs to the Cu0 NPs is avoided. The optimum Cu0 NPs loading on GRCl is 0.5% wt. The GRCl/Cu0 NPs retains high reactivity in the studied pH range from 7 to 10, while the presence of NO3−, PO43−, SO42−, CO32– and humic acid inhibits PNP reduction by the GRCl and GRCl/Cu0 NPs. The GRCl/Cu0 NPs system is less susceptible to the presence of CO32– and humic acid compared to the pure GRCl system due to the migration of the PNP reduction sites from the GRs to the Cu0 NPs. This work sheds light on a new strategy for enhancing GR-based materials for use in groundwater remediation.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (179KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•The studied gelatin revealed good surface active properties.•Improvement produced in EP by the studied gelatin was due to the adsorption of such agents on the anode surface.•In the presence of gelatin, the solution appeared hopeful, and a distinct improvement in the finish was noted.AbstractElectropolishing behavior of steel was studied in orthophosphoric acid in the presence of gelatin for improving the finish obtained. This was inspected by surface tension measurement and potentiodynamic polarization by measuring the limiting current in solutions containing different concentrations of gelatin. Gelatin addition to electropolishing solution results in a lower limiting current. The gelatin surface parameters were calculated from its surface tension. The parameters considered include critical micelle concentration (CMC), maximum surface excess (Гmax), minimum surface area (Amin) and effectiveness (πCMC). Thermodynamic parameters of micellization (ΔGmic, ΔSmic) for gelatin were also calculated. Gelatin records greatest reduction of surface tension (effectiveness, πcmc) and higher minimum area (Amin). This behavior agrees with the highest inhibition efficiency results obtained from a potentiodynamic method. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) was used to investigate steel surface after electropolishing in the absence and presence of gelatin. The addition of a higher concentration of gelatin was successful to enhance steel surface quality.
Highlights•Zinc ferrocyanide was developed and used as a novel inhibiting and sensing pigment in the coating.•Zinc ferrocyanide has a storage capacity of 200 meq/100 g, and releases inhibitors at a high rate.•The crystal structure change makes the pigmented coating to be a sensing coating.AbstractThe fabrication and application of zinc ferrocyanide ion exchange compounds for use as inhibiting and sensing pigments in protective paints and primers for metals and alloys are described in this paper. A distinctive property of these ferrocyanide pigments is an ability to store corrosion inhibitors and then release them when needed by an ion exchange process. The exchange process is triggered when moisture containing Na+ and K+ ions contacts inhibitor particles embedded in an organic coating. The exchange kinetics were studied by measuring the concentration of released zinc ions in the solution with inductively coupled plasma. The inhibitor storage capacity can be as high as 200 meq/100 g, and it is much higher than that found in other reported ion exchange compounds. Furthermore, structure changes from non-crystalline to crystalline, upon exchange with alkaline ions, can be detected by x-ray diffraction, providing an important indication of activation of the corrosion protection. This is a form of corrosion sensing. The inhibition performance of zinc ferrocyanide in the coating was examined by salt spray tests and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and both tests showed that zinc ferrocyanide could provide good protection on aluminum alloy 2024.
Highlights•The removal of CAAs by iron increased first and then decreased with increasing DO concentration from 0 to 7.09 mg/L.•The maximum AA formation during three CAA degradations was obtained at 1.52 mg/L DO.•Two structures of iron corrosion coatings were proposed to explain CAA removal mechanism under anoxic and oxic conditions.AbstractThe monochloroacetic, dichloroacetic and trichloroacetic acid (MCAA, DCAA and TCAA) removed by metallic iron under controlled dissolved oxygen conditions (0, 0.75, 1.52, 2.59, 3.47 or 7.09 mg/L DO) was investigated in well-mixed batch systems. The removal of CAAs increased first and then decreased with increasing DO concentration. Compared with anoxic condition, the reduction of MCAA and DCAA was substantially enhanced in the presence of O2, while TCAA reduction was significantly inhibited above 2.59 mg/L. The 1.52 mg/L DO was optimum for the formation of final product, acetic acid. Chlorine mass balances were 69–102%, and carbon mass balances were 92–105%. With sufficient mass transfer from bulk to the particle surface, the degradation of CAAs was limited by their reduction or migration rate within iron particles, which were dependent on the change of reducing agents and corrosion coatings. Under anoxic conditions, the reduction of CAAs was mainly inhibited by the available reducing agents in the conductive layer. Under low oxic conditions, the increasing reducing agents and thin lepidocrocite layer were favorable for CAA dechlorination. Under high oxic conditions, the redundant oxygen competing for reducing agents and significant lepidocrocite growth became the major restricting factors. Various CAA removal mechanisms could be potentially applied to explaining the effect of DO concentration on iron efficiency for contaminant reduction in water and wastewater treatment.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (157KB)Download full-size image
In recent years, a large number of linear and nonlinear laser-based diagnostic techniques for nonintrusive measurements of species concentrations, temperatures, and gas velocities in a wide pressure and temperature range with high temporal and spatial resolution were developed and have become extremely valuable tools to study many aspects of combustion. Modern “pump-probe” laser spectroscopic methods give direct insight into the microscopic dynamics, product channel distributions, and reaction rates of elementary combustion reactions over a wide range of temperatures and pressures. Nonlinear laser spectroscopic techniques using infrared-visible sum-frequency generation can now bridge the pressure and materials gap to provide kinetic data for catalytic combustion. Laminar flames are ideal objects to develop the application of laser spectroscopic methods for practical combustion systems and to test and improve gas-phase reaction mechanism in combustion models. Besides diagnostics, lasers can also provide well-defined starting conditions for detailed experimental and theoretical studies of ignition processes. Non-intrusive laser point and field measurements, especially joint velocity-scalar data at the same point in space and time, are of basic importance in the validation and further development of turbulent combustion models. As an are for the application of quanitative laser spectroscopy to practical combustion devices, investigations in internal combustion engines are described. Finally, the potential of laser techniques for active combustion control in various devices from laboratory burners to full-scale jet engines, municipal waste incinerators, and pressurized fluidized-bed reactors are illustrated.
Highlights•Electropolymerized layers of Carvacrol (Carv) and Thymol (TOH) were formed on Cu.•FTIR analysis showed the presence of cetonic and ether structures within the layers.•Composition, structure and protective characteristics of the layers were quite different.•PolyCarv layer was transparent and more protective against corrosion than polyTOH.•A high impact of molecular structure on the characteristics of the layers was found.AbstractA comparative study of the electropolymerization of two natural phenolic isomers, carvacrol (Carv) and thymol (TOH) on copper was made. They are components of Origanum vulgare and Thymus vulgaris essential oils. Polymerized layers (polyCarv and polyTOH) were attained by cyclic voltammetry (CV). Electrochemical techniques complemented by ATR-FTIR, XPS, SEM and AFM surface analyses were used to evaluate the composition and protective characteristics of the films. Results revealed that the electrochemical response in chloride solutions was dissimilar. Copper ions release by polyCarv in chloride solutions was lower than 30% of that obtained with TOH treatments. PolyCarv is a highly protective, transparent film, remarkably different from the brownish, rough and non-protective film obtained with TOH. ATR-FTIR results showed that the oxidation of adsorbed Carv and TOH led to cetonic structures while after electropolymerization ether bonds were also found. However, polyCarv and polyTOH showed important differences in ν-OH band. Deconvolution of C1s signal of XPS spectra led to four contributions with different proportions for polyCarv and polyTOH. Accordingly, C(ph)-O is 50% of total C1s for polyCarv and 30% for polyTOH. C1s/O1s relationships were also different. AFM and SEM observations showed the presence of round flakes, smaller for polyCarv (5 nm height) than for TOH (35 nm height). A compact layer was found in case of polyCarv but cauliflower and sticks structures with cracks were found for polyTOH. In summary, results showed the important impact of the molecular structure on the composition, structure and protective characteristics of the polymeric layers. A mechanism is proposed to interpret these results.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (338KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe influence of high burn-up structured material on UO2 corrosion has been studied in an autoclave experiment. The experiment was conducted on spent fuel fragments with an average burn-up of 67 GWd/tHM. They were corroded in a simplified groundwater containing 33 mM dissolved H2 for 502 days. All redox sensitive elements were reduced. The reduction continued until a steady-state concentration was reached in the leachate for U at 1.5 × 10−10 M and for Pu at 7 × 10−11 M. The instant release of Cs during the first 7 days was determined to 3.4% of the total inventory. However, the Cs release stopped after release of 3.5%. It was shown that the high burn-up structure did not enhance fuel corrosion.
Highlights•Cetrimonium bromide (CTAB) is used to inhibit tin electrochemical migration (ECM).•We find CTAB could serve as an effective inhibitor of tin ECM.•We find CTAB affected the electrodeposition during tin ECM by selective adsorption.AbstractThis paper presents a new strategy involving the introduction of the common cationic surfactant cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (cetrimonium bromide, CTAB) to inhibit the electrochemical migration (ECM) of tin in thin electrolyte layers containing chloride ions. The inhibitory effect of different CTAB concentrations on tin ECM under different bias voltages was evaluated using in situ electrochemical and optical techniques, as well as ex situ characterizations. Results showed that CTAB can effectively inhibit tin ECM, and CTAB affected the electrodeposition during tin ECM by selective adsorption. Mechanisms were proposed to explain the beneficial role of CTAB.
In this article Anthony Bennett investigates the use of filtration and separation technology in the fine chemical sectors, including the pharmaceutical and biotechnical chemical industries. He looks at the production of the chemicals themselves, the generation of process water for chemical dilution and the treatment of effluent from chemical synthesis processes.
AbstractThe pre-treatment of a pharmaceutical wastewater (PWW) by Fenton oxidation with zero-valent iron (ZVI) and hydrogen peroxide was investigated to improve the degradation of the complex-mixture of organic compounds present in the wastewater. The influence of different crucial parameters such as the initial hydrogen peroxide concentration, the ZVI concentration and the capacity of the ZVI/H2O2 system to treat different organic loading have been evaluated. The optimal conditions for degradation led to TOC reductions of up to 80% in only 1 h of treatment. This degree of organic mineralization was reached by using moderate loadings of ZVI and hydrogen peroxide (ZVI/TOC weight and H2O2/TOC molar ratios of 12 and 3.2, respectively). Moreover, the use of waste-metallic iron shavings in terms of TOC removal compared to commercial ZVI powder may be a promising and cheaper development.Graphical abstractDownload full-size imageHighlights► Excellent removal of complex organic pollutants present in wastewater generated from a drug manufacturing plant. ► Up to 80% TOC removal reached in 1 h treatment, using moderate loadings of ZVI and H2O2. ► Easy, economic and effective pre-treatment step.
AbstractFor valve regulated lead acid (VRLA) applications involving deep cycling, significant cycle life improvement can be achieved by applying pressure to the plates via the compressible recombinant battery separator mat (RBSM). However, the latest work is showing that the plate-group pressure needs to be much higher than previously assumed, in order to inhibit positive active material expansion and capacity loss. This will require changes not only to the separator, but also to the battery design and assembly techniques. Techniques to apply very high pressures to the cell group during battery assembly need to be developed. Changes to the container design and materials may also be needed, and the overall battery design may need to include an internal or external means to maintain the applied pressure throughout battery life. Less compressible separators may also enable higher plate-group pressures to be maintained.This paper will review possible strategies to achieve these objectives of maintaining plate-group pressure and extending VRLA battery cycle life.
Highlights•The controlled-release strategy can improve the anticorrosion performance of the corrosion inhibitor.•The controlled-release strategy can have a relatively long-term effect.•The controlled-release is realized by using the layered double hydroxides intercalating with molybdate anions.AbstractZn-Al layered double hydroxides (LDHs) intercalating with molybdate anions was developed to inhibit the corrosion of mild steel in neutral chloride conditions. The LDH compounds were prepared by a method involving co-precipitation and anion-exchange and characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), respectively. The anticorrosion capabilities of the LDHs hybrids were analyzed by using open circuit potential (OCP), electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and potentiodynamic polarization curve. A significant reduction of the corrosion rate is observed in the presence of a 2 g/L concentration of the LDHs hybrids in the corrosive media. The mechanism is that the intercalated molybdate anion can slowly diffuse out of the inner structure of LDHs in a controllable way and result in a relatively long-term effect of corrosion inhibition. The result presented here underlines the great potential of the controlled release mechanism for marine anticorrosion applications.Graphical AbstractDownload high-res image (123KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe catalytic oxidation of benzyl alcohol is studied by means of on-line differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS) on both palladium and platinum electrodes. The objective of this work is to investigate the reactivity of the adsorbed species remaining on the electrode surface after a flow-cell experiment and the influence of electrode composition. It is found that the adsorbates formed during the oxidative adsorption of benzyl alcohol are desorbed in the positive-going potential scan as CO2 for platinum and palladium, although benzene is also detected on the latter. Adsorbate yields depend on both potential and electrode composition.
Highlights•Biostimulation by cosubstrates addition enhanced the DDX degradation in soil.•Glycerol induced anoxic sulfidogenic process mediated by sulfate- reducing bacteria.•Toluene induced biotic degradation of DDX mediated by oxygenases as initial step.•Microbial community changes were observed after aerobic and anoxic treatments.AbstractAbiotic and biotic processes can be used to remediate DDX (DDT, DDD, DDE, and DDNS) contaminated soils; these processes can be fostered using specific carbon-amendments to stimulate particular soil indigenous microbial communities to improve rates or extent of degradation. In this study, toluene and glycerol were evaluated as cosubstrates under aerobic and anoxic conditions to determine the degradation efficiencies of DDX and to elucidate possible degradation mechanisms. Slurry microcosms experiments were performed during 60 days using pretreated soil with zero-valent iron (ZVI). Toluene addition enhanced the percentage of degradation of DDX. DDNS was the main compound degraded (around 86%) under aerobic conditions, suggesting cometabolic degradation of DDX by toluene-degrading soil bacteria. Glycerol addition under anoxic conditions favored the abiotic degradation of DDX mediated by sulfate-reducing bacteria activity, where DDT was the main compound degraded (around 90%). The 16S rDNA metagenomic analyses revealed Rhodococcus ruber and Desulfosporosinus auripigmenti as the predominant bacterial species after 40 days of treatment with toluene and glycerol additions, respectively. This study provides evidence of biotic and abiotic DDX degradation by the addition of toluene and glycerol as cosubstrates in ZVI pretreated DDX-contaminated soil.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (204KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Application of DSA to the analysis of writing inks.•Comparison of DSA-TOF-MS, nano UHPLC–Orbitrap MS, and GC-MS of writing inks.•Direct sample analysis identified the highest number of compounds in ink writing.•Pros and cons of using ambient ionization techniques for the analysis of writing inks.AbstractDirect sample analysis (DSA) coupled with high resolution, high mass accuracy time of flight mass spectrometry (TOF-MS) is an emerging technique for the in situ analysis of various substances. DSA is similar to desorption electrospray ionization (DESI) and direct analysis in real time (DART), however, it uses an atmospheric pressure chemical ionization source for ionization of organic compounds. In this study, DSA was applied to the identification of 80 black and blue writing inks from both ballpoint and non-ballpoint pens. Approximately 3 mm sections of each writing was placed on the DSA sample holder and analyzed in an automated fashion. The holder can analyze 13 samples in a serial manner. Utilizing a high mass accuracy TOF-MS and using internal calibration, mass accuracy of <6 ppm was achieved. Moreover, the results obtained from DSA analysis were compared with the extraction of the ink from the paper and its analysis by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC–MS) and nano ultra-high performance liquid chromatography–Orbitrap mass spectrometry (nLC–MS). Analysis by DSA and LC-MS resulted in the identification of colorants as well as vehicles and additives while analysis by GC–MS mainly resulted in the identification of the non-colorant ingredients. Of the three techniques utilized, DSA provided the greatest number of ink compound identifications and in more samples. However, no single method detected all the components of the ink formulations. For profiling purposes, it is therefore necessary to utilize more than one method, such as the combination of DSA, LC-MS, and GC–MS presented in this study.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (52KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe conversion of glycerol in supercritical water (SCW) was studied at 510–550 °C and a pressure of 350 bars using both a bed of inert and non-porous ZrO2 particles (hydrothermal experiments), and a bed of a 1% Ru/ZrO2 catalyst. Experiments were conducted with a glycerol concentration of 5 wt% in a continuous isothermal fixed-bed reactor at a residence time between 2 and 10 s. Hydrothermolysis of glycerol formed water-soluble products such as acetaldehyde, acetic acid, hydroxyacetone and acrolein, and gases like H2, CO and CO2. The catalyst enhanced the formation of acetic acid, inhibited the formation of acrolein, and promoted gasification of the glycerol decomposition products. Hydrogen and carbon oxides were the main gases produced in the catalytic experiments, with minor amounts of methane and ethylene. Complete glycerol conversion was achieved at a residence time of 8.5 s at 510 °C, and at around 5 s at 550 °C with the 1 wt% Ru/ZrO2 catalyst. The catalyst was not active enough to achieve complete gasification since high yields of primary products like acetic acid and acetaldehyde were still present. Carbon balances were between 80 and 60% in the catalytic experiments, decreasing continuously as the residence time was increased. This was attributed partially to the formation of methanol and acetaldehyde, which were not recovered and analyzed efficiently in our set-up, but also to the formation of carbon deposits. Carbon deposition was not observed on the catalyst particles but on the surface of the inert zirconia particles, especially at high residence time. This was related to the higher concentration of acetic acid and other acidic species in the catalytic experiments, which may polymerize to form tar-like carbon precursors. Because of carbon deposition, hydrogen yields were significantly lower than expected; for instance at 550 °C the hydrogen yield potential was only 50% of the stoichiometric value.
AbstractThe corrosion behavior of aluminum alloy 2024-T3 was studied in 3.5% NaCl solution with two fluorescence quinoline compounds named 8-hydroxy-quinoline(8HQ) and 8-hydroxy-quinoline-5-sulfonic acid(HQS). The open circuit potential(OCP) test result indicates that both compounds change the alloy corrosion potential by adsorbing on the electrode surface. Polarization measurements show that 8HQ is a mixed type inhibitor by blocking the active sites of the metal surface, while HQS is a corrosion accelerator by activating the cathodic reaction. Changes of the impedance parameters in the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy(EIS) are related to the adsorption of 8HQ on the metal surface, which leads to the formation of a protective layer. The impedance diagram in the solution with HQS is similar to the one without additional organic compounds. The morphology and composition of the protective layer were studied by using SEM/EDS. The result confirms the function of the additions that the effect of 8HQ is due to the insoluble aluminum chelate, Al(HQ)3, to prevent adsorption of chloride ion, while the effect of HQS is to break down the oxide film.
AbstractA nano-structured hybrid compound was fabricated with excellent corrosion inhibitor encapsulating capacity and the ability of controlled delivery of benzotriazole (BTA) for simultaneous enhancement of the hydrophobic property and corrosion resistance of epoxy coatings. The Ce-metal organic frameworks (Ce-MOF) were synthesized and served as nanocontainers, tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) was further added to form a film to wrap Ce-metal organic frameworks. The addition of benzotriazole into nanocontainers endowed coating system with excellent anti-corrosion performance. The novelty lies in that the tetraethyl orthosilicate membrane would break and produce pores to release benzotriazole uniformly under acid condition, which was a pH-controlled self-healing process through polymer coatings providing an effective release of corrosion inhibitor. The fabricated hybrid compounds were comprehensively characterized with Fourier Transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), Ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy (UV-vis), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) was performed to characterize the corrosion behavior of various composite coatings. Results indicated that the 3 wt.%Ce-metal organic frameworks incorporated into the epoxy coatings showed the most excellent anti-corrosion property.
AbstractThe synergism of imidazole (IMZ) and poly(ethylene glycol) 600 (PEG) for zinc corrosion inhibition in 3 mol L−1 KOH solution was investigated using a combination of electrochemical and gravimetric methods, and the surface morphology of the zinc was observed by scanning electron microscopy. It is found that there is a synergistic effect between IMZ and PEG for the zinc corrosion inhibition. The difference in molecular structure, ring for IMZ and chain for PEG, and in binding atoms with zinc, nitrogen in IMZ and oxygen in PEG, contributes to this synergistic effect. IMZ inhibits zinc corrosion by mainly depressing the anodic reaction, whereas PEG by depressing the cathodic reaction. The storage performance of the zinc–manganese dioxide batteries using IMZ and/or PEG as inhibitors was determined by discharge test, with a comparison of the battery using mercury as the inhibitor. The battery containing 0.05% IMZ + 0.05% PEG exhibits better performance than the mercury-containing battery, especially when discharged at high rate.Highlights► An kind of environmentally benign organic composite additives is used firstly. ► The corrosion of zinc is inhibited used the organic compound as additive. ► The rate performance of the battery used the organic compound as additive is improved. ► The synergism of composite additives for zinc corrosion inhibition is investigated.
AbstractA novel CQDs/TiO2 hierarchical structure with enhanced photocatalytic properties was achieved by uniformly decorating urchin-like and yolk-shell TiO2 microspheres (UYTMs) with carbon quantum dots (CQDs) through an environmentally friendly hydrothermal process. The CQDs were firstly synthesized by the electrochemical method, and the TEM, Raman and PL characterizations strongly indicated that the as-prepared CQDs exhibited good dispersion, high crystallinity and unique up-conversion properties. The UYTMs synthesized by a NaOH-assisted hydrothermal process showed stable 3D hierarchical structure and large surface area, which was beneficial for light absorption and contacting with contamination. The good combination of CQDs and UYTMs was further successfully achieved during the hydrothermal process, and demonstrated by a series of tests. The photocatalytic experiments suggested that the CQDs/UYTMs exhibited better photocatalytic activities than the pure UYTMs and P25 under both visible and UV light irradiation. The CQDs/UYTMs combining with 6 wt% of CQDs showed the best photocatalytic efficiency, while excessive CQDs tended to inhibit the photocatalytic activity. According to the results and discussions, a possible mechanism in improving the photocatalytic efficiency of the CQDs/UYTMs is significantly proposed. The up-conversion property of CQDs can broaden the absorption spectrum of CQDs/UYTMs to the visible light. Moreover, the CQDs, as the electron reservoirs, are efficient to separate the electrons and holes, leading to an improved photocatalytic activity of CQDs/UYTMs.
Highlights•We tested the stability of Linde Type A zeolites in low pH wastewaters.•We examined changes in crystal structure and chemical composition after exposure.•We observed degradation in wastewater brine, and individual acid solutions.•Rapid degradation occurs at pH < 2 in all acids tested.•Dihydrogen phosphate anion catalyzes AlO and SiO bond hydrolysis at high pH.AbstractOn the International Space Station (ISS) there are low pH, urine containing wastewaters that need to be recycled. We evaluated the effects of synthetic ISS wastewater on Linde Type A (LTA) zeolites to assess their applicability in membrane separations to produce potable water. Specifically, we studied the impact of the four acid-producing components found in the wastewater: chromium(VI) oxide, potassium phosphate monobasic, sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate and sulfuric acid. We characterized effects of the acids on crystal structure, bonding, surface morphology and solid phase composition of the LTA zeolites. After 24 h of exposure to synthetic wastewater brine (pH 1.94), the zeolites sustained some damage with extensive structural degradation occurring after 128 h. The crystal structure of the LTA particles completely degraded in all acid-type solutions with a pH below 1 and in phosphate solutions with a pH below 5. The structural degradation resulted from the removal of aluminum from the zeolite framework. Additionally, we observed that phosphate caused changes in bonding of the zeolite, through removal of silicon from the framework and formation of aluminum phosphate precipitates. Ultimately, we found that the presence of acidic anions (specifically dihydrogen phosphate anions that catalyzed aluminum and silicon removal), rather than pH, was the most significant factor causing degradation of LTA in dihydrogen phosphate-containing solutions. Our results indicate that Linde Type A zeolites are inappropriate for use with low-pH, dihydrogen phosphate containing solutions.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractHere we report the elemental and isotopic compositions of the insoluble organic material (IOM) isolated from several previously unanalyzed meteorites, as well as the reanalyses of H isotopic compositions of some previously measured samples (Alexander et al., 2007). The IOM in ordinary chondrites (OCs) has very large D enrichments that increase with increasing metamorphism and decreasing H/C, the most extreme δD value measured being almost 12,000‰. We propose that such large isotopic fractionations could be produced in the OC parent bodies through the loss of isotopically very light H2 generated when Fe was oxidized by water at low temperatures (<200 °C). We suggest that similar isotopic fractionations were not generated in the IOM of CV and CO chondrites with similar metamorphic grades and IOM H/C ratios because proportionately less water was consumed during metamorphism, and the remaining water buffered the H isotopic composition of the IOM even a H was being lost from it.Hydrogen would also have been generated during the alteration of CI, CM and CR carbonaceous chondrites. The IOM in these meteorites exhibit a considerable range in isotopic compositions, but all are enriched in D, as well as 15N, relative to terrestrial values. We explore whether these enrichments could also have been produced by the loss of H2, but conclude that the most isotopically anomalous IOM compositions in meteorites from these groups are probably closest to their primordial values. The less isotopically anomalous IOM has probably been modified by parent body processes. The response of IOM to these processes was complex and varied, presumably reflecting differences in conditions within and between parent bodies.The D enrichments associated with H2 generation, along with exchange between D-rich IOM and water in the parent bodies, means that it is unlikely that any chondrites retain the primordial H isotopic composition of the water ice that they accreted. The H isotopic compositions of the most water-rich chondrites, the CMs and CIs, are probably the least modified and their compositions (δD ⩽ −25‰) suggest that their water did not form at large radial distances from the Sun where ice is predicted to be very D-rich. Yet models to explain the O isotopic composition of inner Solar System bodies require that large amounts of ice were transported from the outer to the inner Solar System.
AbstractThe microstructural features at different scales and the chemical composition of nickel coatings were studied in link with deposition parameters in direct-current and pulsed modes. Complementary characterization tools were used, allowing a scale relationship to be established between the nodule sizes, the sizes of coherent scattering regions and the grain sizes. The influence of deposition conditions on crystallographic texture and nodule size was formalized by maps versus pulsed current density (jp) and duty cycle (γ). The analysis of these maps offers the opportunity to demonstrate that the decrease in grain size is dependent on texture formation in relation with nucleation and growth processes. The chemical contamination, especially by light elements, seems to be the main factor linking deposition parameters and microstructure (texture and grain size).Highlights► In additive-free sulphamate bath, grain refinement is obtained by decreasing pulsed current density. ► Relations are found between sizes of grains, surface nodules and coherent scattering regions. ► Correlations between grain size, crystallographic texture and chemical contamination are discussed.
AbstractCorrosion inhibition of carbon steel in hydrochloric acid solution was inspected using newly Benzylidene-aniline derivatives namely: (E)-N(2-Chlorobenzylidene)-2-Fluorobenzenamine (NCF) and (E)-N(2-Chlorobenzylidene)-3-Chloro-2-Methylbenzenamine (NCCM), by potentiodynamic polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) techniques. The experimental results showed that both NCF and NCCM are good inhibitors for carbon steel in 1 M HCl. The inhibition efficiency increases with inhibitors concentration rise, reaching a value up to 89.72% at 10−3 M for the inhibitor NCF. Electrochemical impedance data show a frequency distribution of the capacitance, simulated as constant phase element (CPE). Polarization curves study revealed that both inhibitors are mixed type. The adsorption on the carbon steel surface follows Langmuir isotherm model with negative values of ΔGads0<math><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">Δ</mi><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">G</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="italic" is="true">ads</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">0</mn></mrow></msubsup></mrow></math>. Thermodynamics data for the adsorption process are calculated and discussed. The effect of molecular structure on inhibition efficiency was investigated by quantum chemical calculations using density function theory (DFT). Furthermore, Monte Carlo simulation technique incorporating molecular mechanics and molecular dynamic was applied to search for the best configurationally space for (NCCM or NCF)/100H2O/α-Fe2O3 (1 1 1) systems. The results indicate that the adsorption energy of NCF was greater than NCCM which is in accordance with the experimentally determined inhibition efficiency.
AbstractA technology for obtaining the zinc phosphate coating on an AZ91D magnesium alloy was investigated. The main ingredients in the phosphating bath were H3PO4, ZnO and NaF. This coating has typical phosphate microstructure, and the compositions in this coating analyzed by XRD are Zn3(PO4)2·4H2O, Zn, AlPO4 and MgZn2(PO4)2. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) has shown that very fine zinc particles surrounded phosphate crystals and filled in the interstice of the insoluble phosphate. Salt spray tests have indicated that the zinc phosphate coating has better corrosion resistance due to the presence of crystalline zinc in the coating. The zinc phosphate coating was used as the base layer for further paint. Salt spray showed that the paint plus phosphate coating had good corrosion resistance. The adhesion of paint on the zinc phosphate coating was better than that of paint on chromate conversion coating due to the microporous structure of the phosphate coating.
AbstractMagnesium surface segregation and oxidation were investigated in Al–Mg alloys with a surface texture characterized by branched and dendritic disordered features of low Mg concentration having a lateral 2-D fractal dimension DB≈1.77. Phase separation of areas with high (∼38% at.) and low (∼14% at.) Mg content allows direct observation of distinct differences in Mg surface segregation and oxidation across disordered phase boundaries. Nanometer scale lateral observation of these phenomena is feasible due to the nanometer spot size (∼15–20 nm) of the electron beam. Preferential surface oxidation, which is manifest even up to temperatures close to the melting point of Al and Mg, is shown to be strongly correlated laterally with the Mg content.
Highlights•Chlorine decay in home-heating scenarios was modeled.•pH and temperature effects were taken into consideration.•Stochastic differential evolution method was applied for parameter searching.•Two-site mechanistic model with interpretable parameters were found the best to fit the data.AbstractA general framework for modeling the bulk chlorine decay that accommodates effects of pH, temperature in water distribution system and in-home heating profiles is developed. With a single set of readily interpreted parameters, and various fictive concentrations of reactive constituents in the water, chlorine decay for the different water systems could be simultaneously modeled. Differential Evolution is employed to estimate the parameters stochastically. By using Bayesian Information Criterion, it is shown that a model consisting of two reactive species is preferred over models that consist of one or three reactive species. The flexibility and power of the framework is demonstrated with a case study of both types of effects.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (189KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe acid hydrolysis of lignocellulosic materials for obtaining xylose solutions and the utilization of hydrolysates for making culture media for xylitol production are reviewed. Strategies for enhancing bioconversion of hydrolysates, including microorganism adaptation and physico-chemical processing of hydrolysates, are discussed. The effects caused by other influential factors (such as type and concentration of inhibitors, degree of hydrolysate concentration, cell concentration, pH, available oxygen and media supplementation) are also considered.
AbstractPure monoclinic zirconia nanopowders were synthesized via a simple, fast and low cost method; polyacrylamide gel method. Also, the effect of initial salt precursor on thermal behavior of gel network and structure of the synthesized nanoparticles was studied with thermogravimetric and differential thermal analysis (TG-DTA), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis. The XRD results showed that the presence of nitrate ions not only retarded the crystallization, but also delayed the tetragonal to monoclinic phase transformation of zirconia nanoparticles which resulted in smaller particle sizes in comparison with the chloride samples. However, TG-DTA analysis confirmed accelerator role of nitrate ions on degradation of polymeric network. Thus, it was expected that zirconia nanopowders synthesized by nitrate samples have bigger sizes than the chloride base powders. Therefore, the presence of nitrate ions affects the synthesized nanoparticle size via two different mechanisms: the retarded crystallization and polymeric network degradation. But, TEM images revealed that the controlling mechanism is the former one.
Highlights•We fabricated Ni–Ti–O nanotubes (NTs) with different size on NiTi alloy through varying anodization voltages.•Worse corrosion resistance and more Ni release are observed from large NTs.•Cytocompatibility of NiTi alloy is improved after anodization especially for the sample anodized at 25 V.AbstractWe fabricate Ni–Ti–O NTs with different size on NiTi alloy through varying anodization voltages and evaluate their corrosion behavior, Ni release, and cytocompatibility. Our results show the NTs influence the corrosion behavior and cytocompatibility of NiTi alloy in a size-dependent manner. Worse corrosion resistance and more Ni release are observed from large NTs because of their high specific surface area. However, cytocompatibility is improved after anodization especially for the sample anodized at 25 V. These results thus indicate the release level of Ni ions from NiTi alloy is well tolerated by osteoblasts and surface nanotubular structure contribute to its cytocompatibility.
Highlights•Zn/AgPs composites coatings were formed for electrodeposition.•CTAB promotes occlusion of silver particles in the coating.•Zn/AgPs coatings present very good antibacterial activity.AbstractComposite coatings consisting of zinc and silver particles (Zn/AgPs) with antibacterial activity were prepared using an electrodeposition technique. The morphology, composition, and structure of the Zn/AgPs composite coatings were analyzed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) coupled with energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), inductively coupled plasma (ICP) spectrometry, and X-ray diffraction (XRD). The antibacterial properties of the coatings against the microorganisms Escherichia coli as a model Gram-negative bacterium and Staphylococcus aureus as a model Gram-positive bacterium were studied quantitatively and qualitatively. The results revealed that the dispersant cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) assisted in the formation of a stable suspension of Ag particles in the electrolytic bath for 24 h. Likewise, a high concentration of CTAB in the electrolytic bath promoted an increase in the number of Ag particles occluded in the Zn/AgPs coatings. The Zn/AgPs coatings that were obtained were compact, smooth, and shiny materials. Antimicrobial tests performed on the Zn/AgPs coatings revealed that the inhibition of bacterial growth after 30 min of contact time was between 91% and 98% when the AgPs content ranged from 4.3 to 14.0 mg cm−3.
Highlights•∼400 compounds analyzed upstream, downstream and at the effluent of 24 WWTP.•Sum concentrations dominated by household chemicals.•Risk driven by lower concentrated pesticides also during low flow conditions.•Only a few substances drive the total risk but lack of pharmaceutical toxicity data.•Predicted risk is correlated to observed effects on invertebrates (SPEAR index).AbstractMicropollutants enter surface waters through various pathways, of which wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) are a major source. The large diversity of micropollutants and their many modes of toxic action pose a challenge for assessing environmental risks. In this study, we investigated the potential impact of WWTPs on receiving ecosystems by describing concentration patterns of micropollutants, predicting acute risks for aquatic organisms and validating these results with macroinvertebrate biomonitoring data. Grab samples were taken upstream, downstream and at the effluent of 24 Swiss WWTPs during low flow conditions across independent catchments with different land uses. Using liquid chromatography high resolution tandem mass spectrometry, a comprehensive target screening of almost 400 organic substances, focusing mainly on pesticides and pharmaceuticals, was conducted at two time points, and complemented with the analysis of a priority mixture of 57 substances over eight time points. Acute toxic pressure was predicted using the risk assessment approach of the multi-substance potentially affected fraction, first applying concentration addition for substances with the same toxic mode of action and subsequently response addition for the calculation of the risk of the total mixture. This toxic pressure was compared to macroinvertebrate sensitivity to pesticides (SPEAR index) upstream and downstream of the WWTPs. The concentrations were, as expected, especially for pharmaceuticals and other household chemicals higher downstream than upstream, with the detection frequency of plant protection products upstream correlating with the fraction of arable land in the catchments. While the concentration sums downstream were clearly dominated by pharmaceuticals or other household chemicals, the acute toxic pressure was mainly driven by pesticides, often caused by the episodic occurrence of these compounds even during low flow conditions. In general, five single substances explained much of the total risk, with diclofenac, diazinon and clothianidin as the main drivers. Despite the low predicted acute risk of 0%–2.1% for affected species, a significant positive correlation with macroinvertebrate sensitivity to pesticides was observed. However, more effect data for pharmaceuticals and a better quantification of episodic pesticide pollution events are needed for a more comprehensive risk assessment.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (528KB)Download full-size image
AbstractIt is shown, hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) on iron occurs according to Volmer–Tafel mechanism in acidic aqueous chloride solutions with constant ionic strength. Relation between o-fluorophenylbiguanidine (o-FPBG) concentration and the kinetics and the nature of rate-determining step (rds) of hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) on iron in acidic chloride media with constant ionic strength has been established. Kinetic parameters of HER – dE/dlog ic, dE/dlog CH+, (dlog ic/dlog CH+)E, dη/dlog ic, dη/dlog CH+ and (∂log ic/∂log CH+)η – have been obtained at different concentrations of o-FPBG and compared with theoretical values appropriate to Volmer–Tafel mechanism. An increase in the o-FPBG concentration provokes sequential change of the rds in the hydrogen evolution reaction according to scheme: slow discharge – slow recombination – slow surface diffusion – slow discharge. It is proved that in the background solutions the slow discharge is followed by chemical recombination, but hydrogen diffusion rate through a steel membrane practically does not depend on the rds nature. Observed phenomena are interpreted from a position of existence of two adsorbed hydrogen forms – subsurface and raised above the surface – and difference in surface coverage by either of them.Highlights► Impedance spectroscopy method permits estimation of HER quick step nature. ► Possibility to manage nature of HER limiting-step is shown. ► Influence of additive concentration on nature of HER limiting-step is shown.
AbstractThe concrete does not possess sufficient resistance towards the permeation of aggressive ions when it is exposed to marine environment. When mineral admixtures are added, they impart certain impermeability to concrete by improving the physical structure by pozzolanic reaction. The reduction of concentration of OH− ion occurs either by consumption of free Ca(OH)2 by pozzolanic reaction or by dilution of cement alkalis due to replacement with mineral admixture. This causes a substantial reduction in the threshold value of chloride in mineral admixed concrete. In the present investigation, the corrosion resistance of rebar embedded in concrete made with Portland pozzolana cement (PPC), Portland slag cement (PSC) was studied for 847 days under macro cell corrosion condition with on comparison using ordinary Portland cement (OPC). Concrete having characteristic compressive strength of 20, 30 and 40 MPa were taken for evaluation. Potential and macro cell corrosion current were measured periodically and corrosion rates were determined by weight-loss method. This long term experiment revealed that in 20 MPa concrete, the corrosion rate of rebar in PPC and PSC concrete was 9 and 10 times lower than the rebar in OPC concrete: In the case of 30 MPa concrete, the corrosion rate of rebar in PPC and PSC concrete was 17 and 6 times lower respectively and in 40 MPa concrete it was 1.6–2.5 times less than the rebar in OPC concrete. The reduction of chloride ion content in blended cement concrete was varied from 1.4 to 3.1 times less than the OPC concrete among all the three concretes studied. Reduction of alkalinity in 20 MPa concrete at the rebar level in PPC and PSC concrete is 6 and 10 times lower, respectively, than in OPC concrete. In the case of 30 and 40 MPa concrete it was 2 and 1.6 times lower. The reduction in alkalinity did not accelerate the corrosion rate of rebar in blended cement concretes even in presence of higher amount of chlorides. The apparent chloride diffusion co-efficient of blended cement concretes was 1.6–1.8 times lower than that of OPC concrete. The combined effect of higher chloride complexing ability and reduction of chloride ion diffusivity of blended cement concretes made them to perform better in terms of corrosion protection of reinforcing steel.
AbstractThe present study has been conducted to investigate the interaction between corrosion and erosion processes and to quantify the synergism in realistic flow environments, including sudden pipe constrictions, sudden pipe expansions, and protrusions. Tests were conducted on AISI 1018 carbon steel using 1 wt% sodium chloride (NaCl) solution purged with CO2 as the corrosive media and silica sand as the erodent.The experiments were designed to understand whether erosion enhances corrosion or corrosion enhances erosion and to evaluate the contribution of the individual processes to the net synergism. It was observed that erosion enhances corrosion and corrosion enhances erosion, with each contributing to significant synergism; however, the dominant process was the effect of corrosion on erosion.
Highlights•NH2SO3H has the unique catalytic features and intrinsic zwitterionic property to catalyze degradation of bamboo fiber to produce HMF in biphasic system.•NaCl can be regarded as the continuous separation of HMF from water phase to organic phase.•Providing an approach for more effective utilization of bamboo fiber as potential feedstock.•Microwave assistance was high-efficiency.AbstractThe present work reports the conversion of lignocellulosic biomass into 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) catalyzed by solid organic acid catalyst with microwave heating in H2O/THF biphasic system. The 52.2% yield of HMF was achieved from the bamboo fiber degradation using NH2SO3H as catalyst at 180 °C for 40 min with 500 Hz microwave heating. The results showed that HMF yield increased significantly with adding NaCl, which not only could effectively increase the HMF distribution coefficient between organic phase and water phase, but also can separate HMF from water phase to organic phase continuously. Moreover, the catalytic system also showed effectiveness to convert other raw lignocellulosic variants to HMF, including softwood, hardwood, and cotton in the optimal biphasic system.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractFormic acid, isopropanol and hydrazine were investigated as reductants for the Pd-catalyzed hydrodechlorination of chlorobenzene in water at ambient temperature. The intention was to find alternatives to molecular hydrogen with high water solubilities. Formic acid was found to be as reactive as H2 under acidic and neutral conditions, but less reactive under alkaline conditions. The observed kinetics imply two pH-controlled reaction mechanisms (possibly H-atom and hydride transfer). H-consumers, such as chlorinated compounds, strongly stimulate the decomposition of formic acid. The half-life of 5 mg L−1 chlorobenzene in the presence of 1 mg L−1 Pd is about 2 min under optimal reaction conditions. Rh was found to be inactive in the formic acid driven hydrodechlorination. Isopropanol is less reactive by about five orders of magnitude than H2. Hydrazine is effective as a H-donor for the hydrodechlorination under alkaline conditions. However, the reaction is slower than with H2 by a factor of 30. From the technical and economic point of view, formic acid is a promising substitute for H2.
AbstractThe efficiency of hexamethylenetetramine (HMTA), as corrosion inhibitors for steel in de-aerated 0.3 M HCl, 0.1 M H2SO4 and 0.1 M H2SO4 + 1.0 × 10−3 M HCl solutions have been determined by electrochemical studies. It was found that the HMTA acts a good corrosion inhibitor for steel corrosion in acids solutions. Increase in inhibition efficiency with the increase of concentrations of HMTA shows that inhibition actions are due to adsorption on the steel surface and adsorption follows the Langmuir isotherm. From the adsorption isotherms values of equilibrium constant (Kads), values of free energies of adsorption (ΔGads°<math><mrow is="true"><mstyle mathvariant="normal" is="true"><mi is="true">Δ</mi></mstyle><msub is="true"><mi is="true">G</mi><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">ads</mtext></mrow></msub><mo is="true">°</mo></mrow></math>), were calculated. The effect of temperature on the corrosion behaviour in the presence of 1.0 × 10−1 M inhibitors was studied in the temperature range of 293–323 K. The inhibition efficiency of HMTA increased with increasing temperature up to 323 K. Activation energies (Ea*<math><mrow is="true"><msubsup is="true"><mi is="true">E</mi><mtext is="true">a</mtext><mo is="true">*</mo></msubsup></mrow></math>) were calculated from the obtained corrosion rates at different temperatures. Results obtained from both potentiodynamic polarisation and AC impedance measurements reveal that the compound is an effective inhibitor for the corrosion of steel and behave better in HCl than in H2SO4. Surface analyses were also carried out to establish the mechanism of corrosion inhibition of steel in acidic media.
Highlights•Pt, Ca, Zn and P have different effects on the catalytic performance of Cu-SSZ-13.•Deactivation by Pt affects N2 selectivity due to the high oxidation activity of Pt.•Deactivation by Zn and Ca affects NOx conversion but with no effect on selectivity.•Deactivation by Zn and Ca lead to pore blocking/filling, along with Cu clustering.•P completely suppresses the activity due to a combination of several mechanisms.AbstractThe chemical deactivation of Cu-SSZ-13 Ammonia Selective Catalytic Reduction (NH3-SCR) catalysts by Pt, Zn, Ca and P has been systematically investigated using a range of analytical techniques in order to study the influence on both the zeolitic framework and the active Cu2+ ions. The results obtained demonstrate a crucial impact of P, completely suppressing the catalytic activity as a result of different deactivation mechanisms (i.e. site blocking, disruption of the zeolite framework, CuO formation and else reduction in the number of isolated Cu2+ ions). A less pronounced drop in activity is found with Ca and Zn introduction, without an appreciable adverse effect on N2 selectivity, since the catalytic deactivation is mainly brought about through a pore blocking/filling mechanism. Additionally, a drop in the amount of Cu2+ ions with the formation of CuO species also takes place, observed to be most important for the Zn-deactivated materials. Deactivation by Pt strongly affects N2 selectivity, but without a significant influence on the active sites or the zeolitic structure, basically due to the high oxidation activity of the Pt species, which highly promote N2O and NO2 formation.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractThe 2D transition metal carbides (MXenes) are increasingly considered among of the most promising 2D nanomaterials, because of their unique properties such as hydrophilic nature, metallic conductivity, large surface-area-to-volume ratio, and active surface functionalities. This has led to their growing utilization in water/wastewater treatment and environmental remediation applications, including water purification membranes, heavy metal removal, capacitive deionization, and bactericidal agents. This account will focus on the key characteristic properties of MXenes such as high metallic/electronic conductivity, and catalytic activity, and their utilization for the electrocatalytic and photocatalytic-based environmental remediation applications. We will also address the key challenges facing MXene-based materials in aqueous media and possible mitigation routs.Graphical abstractCharacteristic electrocatalytic and photocatalytic properties of MXenes and their aqueous media applications.Download high-res image (197KB)Download full-size image
AbstractIn this study, the conjugate of PEG2000–stearic acid (PEG2000–SA) was used to prepare PEGylated solid lipid nanoparticles loading vinorelbine bitartrate (VB-pSLNs) by cold homogenization technique. The particle size and zeta potential of resulted VB-pSLNs ranged 180–250 nm and 0–10 mV, which were determined using a Zetasizer, respectively. Although the drug entrapment efficiency (EE) slightly decreased after the PEG modification of VB-SLNs, above 60 % EE could be reached. The drug release tests in vitro indicated the faster drug release from VB-pSLNs than that from VB-SLNs without PEG modification. To investigate the cellular uptake of VB-pSLNs, the chemical conjugate of octadecylamine-fluorescein isothiocynate (FITC-ODA) was synthesized, and was used as a fluorescence marker to incorporate into nanoparticles. The results from cellular uptake indicated that the phagocytosis of VB-pSLNs by RAW264.7 cells was inhibited effectively by the PEG modification of SLNs, while the uptake by cancer cells (MCF-7 and A549) could be improved significantly. The assay of anticancer activity in vitro demonstrated that the anticancer activity of VB was significantly enhanced by the encapsulation of SLNs and pSLNs due to the increased cellular internalization of drug. The results suggested that SLNs and pSLNs could be excellent carrier candidates to entrap VB for tumor chemotherapeutics.
Publisher SummaryThis chapter discusses biocatalytic processes. The microbial populations, working in the oil reservoir, influenced the final petroleum product. Indeed, those populations adapted to the reservoir environment under extreme conditions, such as pressure, salinity, temperature, etc. The isolation of such microorganisms from extreme environments as well as those from environments exposed to oil (via oil spills, oily wastewater treatment, etc.) has resulted in identification of biological catalysts, which could be used to remove heteroatoms or transform oil components to improve yields and quality of the oil as well as its refined products. Bacteria have evolved to scavenge carbon, sulfur, nitrogen, and metals present in crude oil over time, and such bacteria have served as the source of catalytic materials for oil bioprocessing applications. The understanding that these biological functionalities are a result of evolutionary pressures, serves as inspiration for development of new and emerging technologies. Five main areas of bioprocessing research have emerged in the search for commercial value addition: (1) microbial enhanced oil recovery (MEOR), (2) biodesulfurization, (3) biodenitrogenation, (4) viscosity reduction/biocracking, and (5) biodemetallization.
Highlights•In situ strategy integrates the formation of both nanoparticles and membrane.•Four in situ preparation techniques are designed for novel nano-enhanced membrane.•In situ formed nanoparticles disperse in membrane matrix or on membrane surface.•The properties of membrane for water treatment are improved with in situ strategy.•Technical feature for in situ strategy should be considered for commercialization.AbstractPolymeric membranes enhanced by nanoparticles have received great attention over the past decade due to their abilities to meet the growing demand in addressing the global scarcity and pollution of water resources. Many efforts have been devoted to improve the membrane performance using this strategy, and to develop novel applications via molecular-level design for nanoparticle-polymer systems. Recent advances in applying in situ preparative techniques in polymeric membrane can potentially lead to new classes of nano-enhanced membranes for advanced water purification. Considering the increasing interest in this field related to the potential for controlling the dispersion and stability of nanoparticles, we review the progress of in situ preparative techniques for water purification. Categories of in situ preparative techniques are elaborated in detail, primarily focusing on the mechanism of the sol-gel process and in situ chemical reduction, which are considered as the most common applications of in situ preparative techniques. We also describe the effect of binding styles of nanoparticles (in situ formation in the membrane matrix or on the membrane surface) on the structure-property relationship in nano-enhanced membranes, discussing recent applications of in situ formed metal nanoparticles, metal oxide nanoparticles, polymeric nanoparticles and other nanoparticles in water treatment. Finally, we suggest the antifouling mechanisms of in situ preparative techniques and give a further perspective for the next-generation nano-enhanced membranes. Further development of nano-enhanced membranes must go hand in hand with strict regulations for drinking water consumption and environmental safety.Graphic abstractIn situ preparative technique, which integrates the formation of both nanoparticle and membrane, can be designed and applied with various styles for water treatment.Download high-res image (227KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe influence of salt deposits on the atmospheric corrosion of high purity Al (99.999%) was studied in the laboratory. Four chloride and sulfate-containing salts, NaCl, Na2SO4, AlCl3 · 6H2O and MgCl2 · 6H2O were investigated. The samples were exposed to purified humid air with careful control of the relative humidity (95%), temperature (22.0 °C), and air flow. The concentration of CO2 was 350 ppm or <1 ppm and the exposure time was four weeks. Under the experimental conditions all four salts formed aqueous solutions on the metal surface. Mass gain and metal loss results are reported. The corroded surfaces were studied by ESEM, OM, AES and FEG/SEM equipped with EDX. The corrosion products were analyzed by gravimetry, IC and grazing incidence XRD. In the absence of CO2, the corrosivity of the chloride salts studied increases in the order MgCl2 · 6H2O < AlCl3 · 6H2O < NaCl. Sodium chloride is very corrosive in this environment because the sodium ion supports the development of high pH in the cathodic areas, resulting in alkaline dissolution of the alumina passive film and rapid general corrosion. The low corrosivity of MgCl2 · 6H2O is explained by the inability of Mg2+ to support high pH values in the cathodic areas. In the presence of carbon dioxide, the corrosion induced by the salts studied exhibit similar rates. Carbon dioxide strongly inhibits aluminum corrosion in the presence of AlCl3 · 6H2O and especially, NaCl, while it is slightly corrosive in the presence of MgCl2 · 6H2O. The corrosion effects of CO2 are explained in terms of its acidic properties and by the precipitation of carbonates. In the absence of CO2, Na2SO4 is less corrosive than NaCl. This is explained by the lower solubility of aluminum hydroxy sulfates in comparison to the chlorides. The average corrosion rate in the presence of CO2 is the same for both salts. The main difference is that sulfate is less efficient than chloride in causing pitting of aluminum in neutral or acidic media.
AbstractVisible light photoactive AgCl/polypyrrole (PPy) composites were prepared via the reaction between excessive Ag+ and Cl− ions in the presence of PPy. The AgCl/PPy composites were systematically characterized using Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, Raman spectra, X-ray diffraction (XRD), Scanning electron microscope (SEM), Transmission electron microscope (TEM) and Thermal gravity analysis (TGA). It was found that face-centered cubic AgCl nanocrystallite and 0.2 wt% PPy component existed in the composite and spherical AgCl/PPy nanoparticles were in the range of 200–600 nm. The AgCl/PPy composites showed higher visible light-driven photocatalytic activity and stability than that of AgCl. A photoreduction mechanism was postulated for AgCl/PPy photocatalyst on dye methyl orange (MO). The used AgCl/PPy photocatalyst was facilely regenerated by an oxidation process in aqueous FeCl3 solution.Graphical abstractAgCl/PPy composite exhibits improved photocatalytic performance and high stability under visible light.Download full-size imageHighlights► AgCl/(PPy) nanocomposites as visible light driven photocatalyst. ► Composites exhibited high visible light-driven photocatalytic activity and stability. ► Photocatalytic process on MO followed photoreduction mechanisms. ► Used photocatalyst can be regenerated in aqueous FeCl3 solution.
AbstractIn the process of produce carbon materials by pyrolyzing polycarbodiimide (PCDI), the starting PCDI is preliminarily stabilized by a low temperature treatment in an oxidative atmosphere. In this study, the relation between the carbonization behavior of PCDI films and the stabilization conditions was investigated with the aim of optimizing stabilization conditions. The extent of stabilization was evaluated from the changes in tensile modulus during stabilization and density. A two stage stabilization was proposed to obtain sufficient thermal stability without causing fusion of the films. From the viewpoint of minimizing weight loss and volume reduction and maintaining the shape of the starting material during carbonization, PCDI films required a stabilization giving densities in the region from ca 1.22 to 1.26 g cm−3. During carbonization, a large weight loss took place at ca 480°C, and the decomposition at this temperature favored the crystallite growth at higher carbonization temperatures. Thus, with increasing density of the stabilized film beyond 1.26 g cm−3, more intensive decomposition took place, and the crystallite size and the density of the carbonized films increased although the weight loss increased.
AbstractPolymers and polymer composites are susceptible to premature failure due to the formation of cracks and microcracks during their service time. Evolution of cracks and microcracks could induce catastrophic material failure. Therefore, the detection/diagnostics and effective repair of cracks and microcracks are vital for ensuring the performance reliability, cost effectiveness and safety for polymer structures. Cracks and microcracks, however, are difficult to detect and often repair processes are complex. Biologically inspired self-healing polymer systems with inherent ability to repair damage have the potential to autonomically repair cracks and microcracks. This article is a review on the latest developments on the topics of cracks and microcracks initiation and propagation in polymer structures and it discusses the current techniques for detection and observation. Furthermore, cracks and microcrack repair through bio-mimetic self-healing techniques is discussed along with surface active protection. A separate section is dedicated to fracture analysis and discusses in details fracture mechanics and formation.
AbstractA novel core/shell organic nanoparticles, anthracene/poly-acrylamide (AN/PAM), has been prepared successfully. Based on the fluorescence quenching of AN/PAM nanoparticles by Cr(VI), a method for the selective determination of Cr(VI), without separation of Cr(VI) in water, was developed. Furthermore, the reaction mechanism between nano-AN/PAM and Cr(VI) was also discussed. The synthesis and reaction conditions were investigated in detail. The assay is characterized by short reaction time, very few interference stable fluorescence signals, simple instruments and sensitivity. Under optical experimental conditions, a limit of detection of 0.02 μg/ml was achieved. The calibration curve was linear over the concentration range 0.04–2.00 μg/ml with a correlation coefficient of 0.9924. The proposed method has been applied to the selective quantification of Cr(VI) in synthetic samples and waste-water samples with the satisfactory results.
Highlights•ZVI-activated persulfate oxidation could efficiently degrade bentazon in water.•Both ZVI concentration and PS dose had an inflection point in ZVI-PS system.•Low bentazon concentration, low pH and high temperature favored the reaction.•Different coexisting ions exhibited different effects.•Most of bentazon transformed to intermediate products instead of carbon dioxide.AbstractBentazon (BTZ) in water, a broadly used herbicide in agriculture, is toxic to human beings and has a negative impact on ecosystem. In this study, zero-valent iron (ZVI) activation of persulfate (PS) for the oxidation of BTZ was investigated. More active sulfate radicals produced from the system were principally responsible for the BTZ degradation. The BTZ removal well followed a pseudo-first-order (PFO) kinetics pattern. Key factors affecting the treatment were tested, including ZVI concentration, PS dose, initial BTZ concentration, initial solution pH, temperature and common coexisting ions in water. Under the optimal ZVI (4.477 mM) and PS (0.262 mM) concentrations, 0.021 mM BTZ was totally removed at an initial pH ⩽ 7.Generally, lower BTZ concentration, lower pH and higher temperature favored the treatment. Different coexisting ions exhibited different effects. Al3+, Cl− and NO3− improved the treatment; NH4+, Ca2+, and Mg2+ did not significantly influence the BTZ removal; and, Mn2+, Cu2+, CO32−, HCO3−, PO43−, HPO42− and H2PO4− inhibited the BTZ degradation. Most of BTZ were not mineralized, and instead degraded into three major degradation products including 2,1,3-benzothiadiazin-4(3H)-one-2,2-dioxide (P1, C7H6N2O3S), 2-aminobenzoic acid (anthranilic acid) (P3, C7H7NO2), and 2-amino-2-sulfobenzoic acid (P5, C7H7NO5S). This study demonstrates that ZVI/PS is a viable alternative for controlling BTZ-induced water pollution.
AbstractA simple sol-gel technique for the preparation of methyl–modified silica coatings for the protection of the external surface of copper has been used in this study. Tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS) has been used as a precursor to prepare nanosilica coatings on the surface of copper. The methyl–modified silica sols were obtained by mixing of 3% SiO2 sol solution with trimethylchlorosilane (TMCS) or hexamethyldisilozane (HMDS) as basic materials. For comparison, the copper substrates were also coated with commercial polymers (Paraloid B 72, Plexisol P 550-40 and polyvinyl butyral (PVB)). The surface morphology changes of uncoated and coated specimens were investigated by atomic force microscopy (AFM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The hydrophobicity of surfaces and photochemical ageing effects were evaluated by contact angle measurements. Potentiodynamic measurements were obtained in order to compare corrosion parameters of the coatings.
AbstractThe action of some organic compounds from the group of surfactants and polyethylene glycols (PEGs) on zinc corrosion in alkaline media was studied. The investigations were carried out by use of electrochemical and nonelectrochemical methods. The effectiveness of the inhibitors was compared and it was found that the PEG of average molar weight 400 (PEG400) was especially effective. The assumption has been advanced that zinc corrodes electrochemically in the first stage of exposition, but the chemical corrosion prevails after a longer time.
AbstractA new corrosion inhibitor, namely 2,2′-bis(benzimidazole) has been synthesised and its inhibiting action on the corrosion of mild steel in acidic bath (1 M HCl) has been investigated by various corrosion monitoring techniques, such as corrosion weight loss test and potentiodynamic polarisation. The results of the investigation show that this compounds have fairly good inhibiting properties for steel corrosion in hydrochloric acid, and is a mixed inhibitor in (1 M HCl). The adsorption of this inhibitor is also found to obey the Langmuir adsorption isotherm.
AbstractThe corrosion protection behaviour of poly(neutral red) (PNR) films on copper electrodes has been investigated using open circuit measurements, Tafel plots and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. Pure copper electrodes were initially passivated in sodium oxalate, salicylate or hydrogen carbonate solution, to inhibit copper dissolution at potentials where neutral red monomer oxidation occurs, before its electropolymerization by potential cycling. The corrosion inhibition by these films was tested in 0.10 M KCl solution. It was found that, after long immersion times (96 h), the best protection efficiency was with PNR films formed on copper passivated in oxalate solution.Highlights► Copper passivated in oxalate, salicylate or hydrogen carbonate solution. ► Poly(neutral red) films on passivated copper inhibit corrosion in chloride solution. ► Best inhibition by films of poly(neutral red) on copper passivated in oxalate.
Highlights•Anodic electrochemical dissociation of sputtered ZnO:Al thin films was investigated.•Reaction kinetics and resulting surface morphology depended on the anion species.•Chloride, nitrate and perchlorate solutions lead to porous, cavern-like structures.•Grain boundaries were selectively dissolved in sulfate due to a buffering effect.AbstractThe electrochemical anodic dissolution of sputter-deposited, aluminum-doped zinc oxide (ZnO:Al) was investigated. The dissolution proceeds mainly via a local oxygen evolution reaction and subsequent dissolution of the zinc oxide lattice. The present work focuses on the influence of the anion species in the used electrolyte. Several electrolytes (KCl, K2SO4, KNO3, KClO4) were applied. The anion species turned out to be a major factor that influenced the kinetics of the etching process. In K2SO4 solutions a strong limitation of the etching process to the close vicinity of the grain boundaries was observed. However, anodic dissolution in KCl, KNO3, and KClO4 showed an unexpected etching behavior, which lead to the formation of cavern-like structures within the ZnO:Al thin films. This was attributed to different local pH values at the ZnO:Al/electrolyte interface.
AbstractWe have measured the absolute viscosity of 23 room temperature ionic liquids (RTILs) (13 air/moisture-tolerant single salts and 10 air/moisture-sensitive binary salts) using a rolling-ball viscometer, which was constructed to enable the viscosity measurements to be performed outside a glove-box. The viscometer was non-destructive to the RTIL and the viscosity measurements were made under typical levels of O2 and H2O of less than 1 ppm. The viscometer was calibrated with Milli-Q water and sucrose solutions (20, 40 and 60% w/w) at 14 temperatures (10 °C ⩽T⩽ 70 °C). Three balls of diameters 3.2, 4 and 5 mm were used for the calibration. We found that the ball with the smallest diameter (3.2 mm) was more accurate for measuring the viscosities. The activation energies for viscous flow (Eη) for each RTIL were calculated, from the slopes of the Arrhenius plots. Eη was correlated with changes in molecular structure of the RTIL; those containing high molar mass and less symmetric cations had higher Eη values. The Arrhenius plot was not linear for the majority of the RTILs and some of these RTILs were better fitted with the Vogel–Tammann–Fulcher (VTF) equation. Those RTILs which obeyed the Arrhenius law typically contained asymmetric cations and the majority did not contain functional groups. Those RTILs which obeyed the VTF law contained small and symmetrical cations with low molar mass. Those RTILs which obeyed neither the Arrhenius nor the VTF law consisted of cations which were less symmetric, contained functional groups (e.g., OH and CO) and had higher molar mass. The glass transition temperatures To (calculated from the VTF fittings) generally decreased with increasing size and molar mass of the cation and anion. The chloroaluminate RTILs containing oxygenated cations were more volatile than the corresponding de-oxygenated RTILs making them unsuitable for applications as solvents and/or electrolytes above ambient temperature.
AbstractStable carbon isotopic analysis, in combination with compositional analysis, was used to evaluate the performance of an iron permeable reactive barrier (PRB) for the remediation of ground water contaminated with trichloroethene (TCE) at Spill Site 7 (SS7), F.E. Warren Air Force Base, Wyoming. Compositional data indicated that although the PRB appeared to be reducing TCE to concentrations below treatment goals within and immediately downgradient of the PRB, concentrations remained higher than expected at wells further downgradient (i.e. > 9 m) of the PRB. At two wells downgradient of the PRB, TCE concentrations were comparable to upgradient values, and δ13C values of TCE at these wells were not significantly different than upgradient values. Since the process of sorption/desorption does not significantly fractionate carbon isotope values, this suggests that the TCE observed at these wells is desorbing from local aquifer materials and was present before the PRB was installed. In contrast, three other downgradient wells show significantly more enriched δ13C values compared to the upgradient mean. In addition, δ13C values for the degradation products of TCE, cis-dichloroethene and vinyl chloride, show fractionation patterns expected for the products of the reductive dechlorination of TCE. Since concentrations of both TCE and degradation products drop to below detection limit in wells within the PRB and directly below it, these downgradient chlorinated hydrocarbon concentrations are attributed to desorption from local aquifer material. The carbon isotope values indicate that this dissolved contaminant is subject to local degradation, likely due to in situ microbial activity.
Highlights•Mixtures of surfactants are utilized to maximize inhibition efficiency.•There is a synergistic inhibition effect of SDS and CTAB in NaCl solution.•Surfactants behave as mixed-type inhibitors.•Surfactants follow Flory–Huggins adsorption isotherm.AbstractThe corrosion inhibition characteristics of cation-rich and anion-rich catanionic mixtures of cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB) and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), as corrosion inhibitor of mild steel (MS), in aqueous solution of 3.5% NaCl were investigated using electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), potentiodynamic polarization and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Solutions of CTAB/SDS mixtures showed more appropriate inhibition properties compared to the solutions of the individual surfactants, due to strong adsorption on the metal surface and formation of a protective film. Potentiodynamic polarization investigations indicated that the inhibitors studied were mixed type inhibitors. Adsorption of the inhibitors on the mild steel surface obeyed the Flory–Huggins adsorption isotherm. Furthermore, the values of the adsorption free energy (ΔG°ads) in both mixtures decreased compared with a single surfactant which is attributed to stronger interactions in mixtures.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
Highlights•High stable and regenerable 20%Ni-AlSBA-15 are synthesized by one-pot methods.•High dispersion of nickel particles correlated closely with one-step synthesis.•High sulfur capacities of 20%Ni-AlSBA-15(30) depended on uniform Lewis acid sites.•XRD characterization verified that structure of mesoporous sorbents remained intact.AbstractHexagonally mesoporous 5–30%Ni-AlSBA-15 (30) sorbents were prepared by one-step strategy synthesis and the adsorptive desulfurization performances were investigated in a fixed bed adsorber via model and commercial liquid fuels at ambient pressure. The highest sulfur capacity (17.46 mg-S/g-sorbent) over 20%Ni-AlSBA-15 (30) correlated closely with high Lewis acid sites and larger SBET of 20%Ni-AlSBA-15 (30). The characterization results of N2 adsorption, FT-IR, Py-FT-IR, ICP, HRTEM, EDXA, small- and wide-angle XRD revealed that aluminum or nickel atoms could enter effectively the Si-O-Al (or Ni) framework of SBA-15 and were randomly dispersed highly on the hexagonal pore walls of SBA-15. The hexagonal p6mm symmetry mesoporous structure of 20%Ni-AlSBA-15 (30) still remained intact after four successive desulfurization/regeneration cycles, indicating that 20%Ni-AlSBA-15 (30) presents ultrahigh structural stability and regenerable ability. As comparison, SBA-15 and AlSBA-15 (SiO2/Al2O3 = ∞, 100, 50, 30, 20, 10) were also prepared and evaluated on physical properties.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (216KB)Download full-size image
AbstractDue to a steady increase in daily life of the need for innovative products, new materials suitable to meet these requirements have to be developed. Poly(vinylphosphonic acid) and its derivatives, poly(vinylphosphonates) and poly(vinylphosphine oxides), have been developed as functional synthetic polymers and gained importance in the polymer applications. Homopolymers of vinylphosphonic acid and its copolymers show interesting properties, given by the presence of acidic functionality. The aim of this paper is to present an overview on the synthesis and applications of vinyl polymers containing functional phosphorus moieties and to emphasize their special properties.
AbstractElectrochemical and morphological aspects of the first stages of Ni deposition were studied in neutral sulfate solutions by means of voltammetry, potentiostatic steps and AFM techniques. Both of the two deposition mechanisms identified in this medium were analysed. At low overpotentials, the nucleation of crystallites follows a mechanism involving the adsorption of NiOH+, which is suppressed at low pH values and in the presence of complexing anions. Due to the local alkalisation by hydrogen evolution, the initial kinetic-controlled growth on H covered Ni-crystallites is inhibited by a preferential adsorption of Ni(OH)2. A model based on an inhibited three-dimensional growth was proposed. At more cathodic potential, nucleation is controlled by the adsorption of non-complexed Ni(I) and crystal growth occurs in the presence of a porous hydroxide layer limiting the cation transport.
Highlights•PDC composite membrane synthesized and characterized successfully.•Porous structure and hydrophilic characteristics of the membranes were tailored.•PDC membrane modified with 0.5 wt% graphene oxide shows high ion exchange capacity.•MFC using PDC modified with 0.5 wt% graphene oxide shows high power density.AbstractProton-conducting porous ceramic membranes were synthesized via a polymer-derived ceramic route and probed in a microbial fuel cell (MFC). Their chemical compositions were altered by adding carbon allotropes including graphene oxide (GO) and multiwall carbon nanotubes into a polysiloxane matrix as filler materials. Physical characteristics of the synthesized membranes such as porosity, hydrophilicity, mechanical stability, ion exchange capacity, and oxygen mass transfer coefficient were determined to investigate the best membrane material for further testing in MFCs. The ion exchange capacity of the membrane increased drastically after adding 0.5 wt% of GO at an increment of 9 fold with respect to that of the non-modified ceramic membrane, while the oxygen mass transfer coefficient of the membrane decreased by 52.6%. The MFC operated with this membrane exhibited a maximum power density of 7.23 W m−3 with a coulombic efficiency of 28.8%, which was significantly higher than the value obtained using polymeric Nafion membrane. Hence, out of all membranes tested in this study the GO-modified polysiloxane based ceramic membranes are found to have a potential to replace Nafion membranes in pilot scale MFCs.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (226KB)Download full-size image
AbstractAdvances in horizontal drilling coupled with hydraulic fracturing have unlocked trillions of cubic feet (billions of cubic meters) of natural gas and billions of barrels (millions of cubic meters) of petroleum in shale plays across the United States. There are over 72,000 unconventional well sites in the United States, with anywhere from 2 to 13 million gallons (7500–49,000 cubic meters) of water used per unconventional well. While unconventional wells produce approximately 35% less waste water per unit of gas than conventional wells, the sheer number of wells and amount of oil and gas being produced means that water use has increased by as much as 500% in some areas. Such large water demands give rise to questions about water management, including acquisition, transportation, storage, treatment, and disposal. While these issues vary by play, some key concerns include competition for drinking water sources, impacts of fresh and wastewater transportation, the extent of wastewater recycling, contamination, and the effects of various treatment and disposal methods on communities and watersheds. These concerns have not been fully resolved, yet there is a noticeable, and largely quantifiable, evolution of management practices toward operating more sustainably and with smaller regional impacts. Here we explore water management issues as they arise throughout the unconventional drilling process, particularly focusing on how practices have changed since the beginning of the shale boom and how these issues vary by play.
Highlights•New hydrazine derivatives as corrosion inhibitors for steel were studied theoretically.•DFT modelling and Molecular dynamics simulations provided molecular level insights.•Quantitative structure activity relationship (QSAR) approach has been used.•Theoretical results were found to be consistent with the experimental.AbstractIn this work, global reactivity descriptors (GRDs) are calculated in order to examine the link between corrosion inhibition efficiency and electronic properties of four Azines namely: 1,2-bis(pyrrol-2-ylidenemethyl) hydrazine (HZ1), 1,2-bis(thiophen-2-ylidenemethyl) hydrazine (HZ2), 1,2-bis(furyl-2-ylidenmethyl) hydrazine (HZ3) and 1,2-bis(pyridin-2-ylidenemethyl) hydrazine (HZ4). Apart from the neutral molecules, possible protonation at respective likely sites/heteroatoms was examined in order to predict the behavior of the compounds under experimental conditions of (2.0 M) H3PO4. The GRDs most pertinent to the potential actions of the studied compounds as corrosion inhibitors were investigated in both un-protonated and mono-protonated forms for adequate comparison. The proton affinities, Fukui functions on the active centers of both forms are also calculated at the DFT/B3LYP/6 − 311 + + G ∗ ∗ level of theory in the gas phase. The protonated sites showed slightest tendency of chemical adsorption to metallic surface. The type of interactions for Air-inhibitor/H3PO4/Fe-face system is determined by thermodynamic parameters of adsorption. QSAR results show good linearity between some GRDs (EHOMO, ELUMO & μ) and literature experimental inhibition efficiency (R2 ≈ 1). Furthermore, molecular dynamics (MDs) simulation studies were applied to search for the final and lowest energy configurational spaces for HZi/50H2O/3H3O+/PO43−/Fe{111} systems. The combination of GRDs with MDs parameters provides an effective means of understanding the physico-chemistry of these Azines.
Highlights•Ginkgo leaf extract (GLE) was used as an eco-friendly corrosion inhibitor of X70 steel in 1 M HCl at different temperatures.•The inhibition efficiency obtained from EIS agrees well with that from polarization results.•PZC measurement and DFT calculation gave a deep insight into the inhibition mechanism.AbstractThe corrosion inhibition of X70 steel in 1 M HCl by Ginkgo leaf extract (GLE) was investigated by conducting electrochemical measurements. The inhibition efficiency exceeded 90% in the presence of 200 mg/L GLE at all of the tested temperatures. The excellent inhibition capacity, which was attributed to the formation of inhibitor–adsorption films on the surface of the X70 steel, was confirmed by field emission scanning electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy. The adsorption of GLE on steel surface followed the Langmuir adsorption model. Potential of zero charge measurement and quantum chemical calculation were adopted to elucidate the inhibition mechanism.
AbstractThe surface modification of copper substrates by means of liquid phase reaction with 1H, 1H, 2H, 2H-perfluorooctanephosphonic acid, 6-phosphonohexanoic acid and 16-phosphonohexadecanoic acid is investigated. The substrate preparation is based on common industrial methods and avoids a separate oxidation step of the copper surface prior to modification. Analysis and characterization of the surfaces were performed using various physico-chemical methods. The film formation of a fluoroalkyl phosphonic acid and two carboxyl terminated phosphonic acids on the copper surface was proven by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy, SEM/EDX as well as water contact angle measurements. For 16-phosphonohexadecanoic acid a higher film thickness was obtained compared to 6-phosphonohexanoic acid. Hydrogen bonds between adjacent carboxylic terminated phosphonic acids lead to multilayer formation. In additional experiments, these phosphonic acids were investigated as adhesion promoters in copper / epoxy resin laminates in order to replace conventional surface roughening processes. For these laminates, the peel strength was significantly higher when the copper surface was functionalized with 16-phosphonohexadecanoic acid.
AbstractNew 2-pyridyl, 3-pyridyl and 4-pyridyl derivatives of iminobisphosphonic acid were prepared by addition of tris(trimethylsilyl)phosphite to the corresponding derivatives of pyridineimine-methylphosphonates 3 and subsequent methanolysis of the silylated products 4. Solution studies on the coordination abilities of the ligands have shown that these compounds bind copper(II) ion through the tridentate {N,O,O} mode, where Cu(II) is stabilized by two five-membered chelate rings. The complexes obtained are very stable, with the pCu(II) value above 12, and therefore the ligands can be used as powerful chelating agents for copper ion.Graphical abstractSynthesis of new pyridyl derivatives of iminobisphosphonic acid was described. Solution studies on the coordination abilities of the nine new ligands have shown that they form very stable complexes with copper(II) ion, with the pCu(II) values above 12.Download full-size image
AbstractMesoporous sulfonic acid catalysts (MSAC) are widely used in acid-catalyzed reactions, including biomass conversions with plenty of polar solvents and precursors. The catalytic efficiency of MSAC is greatly affected by the microenvironment around the sulfonic acid sites. In this review, the progress on modification of microenvironment of MSAC is reviewed over the past decade. Hydrophobic modification allows MSAC prevent the adhesion of water molecules onto sulfonic acid sites, to abate the risk of reduced acid strength and catalytic efficiency. In comparison, hydrophilic properties can bring positive effect on acid-catalyzed reactions with the aid of hydrophilic interaction between polar functional groups on MSAC and hydrophilic groups of specific substrates. Amphiphilic MSAC with tunable wettability for specific substrates and solvents tend to improve the efficiency in certain reactions with mixed solvents or reactants of different polarity, especially for biphasic systems of immiscible liquids. Furthermore, much attention has been attracted on modification of surface to simulate the microenvironment of homogeneous solvents and enzyme biocatalysts in recent research. New trends of this field are also highlighted.Graphical abstractMesoporous sulfonic acid catalysts (MSAC) play an important role in acid-catalyzed reactions, and construction of desired microenvironment on MSAC takes great effects on the adsorption process, catalytic performance and the stability of catalysts. The review is presented as following sections: (1) hydrophobic modification; (2) hydrophilic interaction; (3) retaining the balance for amphiphilic properties; and (4) specific adsorption with biomimetic strategy.Download high-res image (156KB)Download full-size image
AbstractAdditional tertiary treatment of secondary-treated municipal wastewater (MWW) is necessary to reduce its scaling potential for use in power plant cooling systems. In this study corrosiveness of three tertiary-treated municipal wastewaters (acidified MWW, MWW treated by nitrification–filtration, and MWW treated by nitrification–filtration and granular activated carbon adsorption) towards mild steel, copper, and cupronickel alloys was assessed. pH, ammonia, and organic matter were identified as important corrosion influencing parameter in tertiary-treated municipal wastewater. Corrosiveness of wastewater towards metal alloys increased after tertiary treatments. However, corrosion of mild steel and copper alloys was controlled within acceptable limits using the corrosion inhibitor tolyltriazole.Highlights► Tertiary treatment increases corrosiveness of secondary treated municipal effluent. ► Ammonia induced corrosion in tertiary treated municipal effluent can be controlled. ► Removal of organic matter from municipal wastewater enhances copper alloy corrosion. ► Tolyltriazole inhibits mild steel and copper alloy corrosion in treated effluent.
AbstractAgglomerated nanocrystalline ZrO2-8%Y2O3 powder prepared by spray drying was heat-treated in air at temperatures from 1200 °C to 1400 °C for 2 h. Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the changes of particle size and morphology, and X-ray diffraction was used to analyze the change of constituent phases before and after the high temperature heat treatment. Nano-particle growth behavior was also investigated. The results show that the major constituent phase of the agglomerated nanocrystalline powder is tetragonal, and non-uniform growth of the nano-particles occurs while the heat treatment temperature reaches 1300 °C. This non-uniform growth phenomenon is related with the inhomogeneous distribution of Y2O3 in ZrO2. Nano-particles grow into micron particles through the mechanisms of gradual merging of nano-particles in some areas and sudden merging of nano-particles in other areas.
AbstractAn investigation is reported on O2 electrogeneration at β-PbO2 electrodes in HClO4, H2SO4 and CF3SO3H (TFMSA) using steady-state and impedance measurements. It is established that desorption of reaction intermediates is rate limiting in all the cases examined, and it is proposed that elementary reactions leading to oxygen evolution take place at a surface consisting of crystal line (PbO2) and hydrous [PbO(OH)2] zones. Contribution of the latter becomes particularly pronounced at high potentials, probably on account of PbO2 dissolution and re-deposition in the form of Pb(OH)4 that subsequently evolves to give PbO(OH)2. This process is indicated as a possible cause of an inflexion point in the Tafel plots between 1.95 and 2.0 V SCE. Different important factors are found to affect the electrochemical process: (i) pre-treatment of the electrode, which makes electrodes more active by reason of an increase of the hydrous zones; (ii) the temperature at which electrodeposition of PbO2 is carried out has an effect on the hydration state of the surface and hence the electrocatalytic activity; (iii) electrolyte anions, particularly SO42− and CF3SO3−, are adsorbed and inhibit both water discharge and desorption of reaction intermediates; besides, they undergo oxidation at the more positive potentials; (iv) fluoride added to the electrolyte is strongly adsorbed and suppresses and/or modifies the structure of the hydrous layer with the consequence that water discharge is inhibited in the lower potential range and, prevalently at the more positive potentials, desorption of oxygen intermediates is strongly retarded; and (v) a low electrolyte temperature also inhibits O2 evolution mainly by inhibition of the desorption of reaction intermediates in the whole potential range examined, in contrast to the selective effect of fluoride.
AbstractFlavones are present in a variety of medicines and natural products and are important structural motif due to their unique mode of physiological action. Hence the structural importance of flavone moiety has elicited a great deal of interest in the field of organic synthesis and chemical biology to develop some new and improved synthesis of this molecular skeleton. Herein, we have described an up to date overview on the recent advances in the diverse synthetic methodologies of flavones. The review covers the basic conceptual and practical catalytic synthesis like carbonylative annulation, cyclodehydration, Suzuki Miyaura coupling, Heck coupling, green methodologies, metal catalyzed reactions, organocatalytic transformations, microwave irradiation, etc. which are significant for constructing flavone skeleton. This review will satisfy the expectations of readers who are interested in the development of the field and looking for an update. It will stimulate researchers to develop new and creative synthetic access to this heterocyclic system, which will be instrumental in the advancement of flavone chemistry.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (205KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe effect of additives on asphaltene interfacial films and emulsion stability was analyzed through the change in film properties. Surface pressure isotherms were measured at 23 °C for model interfaces between aqueous surfactant solutions and asphaltenes dissolved in toluene and heptane–toluene mixtures. Compressibility, crumpling film ratio and surface pressure were determined from the surface pressure isotherms. The stability of water-in-oil emulsions was determined for the same systems based on the proportion of unresolved emulsified water after repeated treatment involving heating at 60 °C and centrifugation. Experimental variables included concentration of asphaltenes (5 and 10 kg/m3), concentration and type of surfactant (Aerosol OT, nonylphenol ethoxylates, polypropylene oxide block-copolymer, dodecylbenzene sulfonic acids, dodecylbenzene sulfonic acid–polymer blend, diisopropyl naphthalene sulfonic acid, and sodium naphthenate) and aging time (from 10 min to 4 h). Additives were found to have two opposing effects on film properties and emulsion stability: (1) decreasing or eliminating the crumpling ratio which destabilized emulsions and (2) decreasing interfacial tension which enhanced emulsion stability. A stability parameter was defined to include both the crumpling ratio and interfacial tension and provided a consistent correlation for the percent residual emulsified water.Graphical abstractThe stability parameter includes both the film crumpling ratio and interfacial tension. The correlation of emulsion stability to this parameter indicates that both film properties and interfacial tension strongly influence the effective of additives for emulsions stabilized by irreversibly adsorbed films.Download high-res image (101KB)Download full-size imageResearch highlights► For emulsions with irreversibly adsorbed films, emulsion stability correlated primarily to the crumpling ratio (point at which a compressed interfacial film buckles). ► Secondary factor – decreased interfacial tension increased emulsion stability. ► A “stability parameter” defined that included both the crumpling ratio and interfacial tension. ► This parameter provided a good correlation for the percent residual emulsified water after given treatment.
AbstractA figure of merit (FOM) has been developed to define the quality of ceramic (e.g., ZrO2) coatings on metal and alloy [Type 304SS and Alloy 600] surfaces. Zirconia (ZrO2) coatings were developed as a means of protecting the metal/alloy surfaces from stress corrosion cracking (SCC) in boiling water reactor (BWR) primary heat transport circuits, by inhibiting the cathodic reaction (reduction of oxygen and hydrogen peroxide) on the surface external to the crack. The distribution of pores in the coating plays an important role in corrosion prevention, such that the lower the porosity of the coating, the better the protection afforded to the system against SCC. Since the reactors operate at high temperature (e.g., at 288 °C under full power conditions), the temperature dependence of the FOM was investigated. The figure of merit (FOM) was developed by measuring impedance data over a wide range of frequency (10 mHz–5 kHz) at temperatures of 25, 100, 200, and 288 °C in hydrogenated, buffered solutions, with the hydrogen electrode reaction (HER) being used as a “fast” redox couple. An “equivalent circuit” analog was first developed from the bare surface impedance data and this analog was then employed in a second step to model the pore bottom in defining the pore distribution on the coated surface. A lognormal distribution (LND) of the pores was assumed and the parameters of the LND were determined using a constrained optimization technique to fit the model to the experimental data for the coated surface at different temperatures. The results suggest that, as temperature increases, the coating becomes more porous, making the substrate more susceptible to corrosion cracking. At 288 °C, 87% of the SS and 85% of the Ni-alloy surfaces become porous with the pore radius varying from 0.0001 cm to 0.01 cm.
Highlights•Studied amino acid compounds act as efficient corrosion inhibitor.•Studied inhibitors BIFP and BIFM act as mixed inhibitors.•Adsorption of both inhibitors on N80 steel surface obeys Langmuir's isotherm.•Quantum chemical parameters were in good correlation with experimental results.AbstractAmino acid compounds, namely, 1-(1H-benzo[d]imidazole-2-yl)-N-((furan-2-yl)methylene)methanamine (BIFM) and 1-(1H-benzo[d]imidazole-2-yl)-N-((furan-2-yl)methylene)-2-phenylethanamine (BIFP) were synthesized and studied as inhibitors for N80 steel corrosion in 15% HCl solution using potentiodynamic polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) techniques. Polarization studies showed that both studied inhibitors were of mixed type in nature. The adsorption of inhibitors on the N80 steel surface obeys Langmuir adsorption isotherm. The potential of zero charge (EPZC) for the N80 steel was determined by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy method. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) were used to characterize the surface morphology of uninhibited and inhibited N80 steel specimens. The Density Functional Theory (DFT) was employed for theoretical calculations.
Highlights•The reliability of SiC die attachment sintered by nano-Ag paste during high temperature storage at 350 °C was evaluated.•The failure mechanisms of die attachment at high temperatures were diffusion and oxidation.•The ENIG finished substrate does not support the die attachment at high temperature applications.•The electroplated Ag layer was designed as a diffusion barrier and could improve the reliability.AbstractThis study demonstrates the reliability of SiC chip attachment sintered by nano-Ag paste during high temperature storage (HTS) tests in air at 350 °C, which was twice as high as the maximum junction temperature in service of the Si chip. The failure mechanisms of die attachment at high temperatures were diffusion and oxidation. The residual organics in the Ag paste was enough to provide the oxygen to form the continuous NiO layer at the bondline/SiC chip interface, and the oxide growth obeyed a parabolic rate law. Based on the microstructural evaluation and interfacial diffusion behavior of die attachment during HTS, the electroplated Ag layer was designed and applied on the ENIG finish as a diffusion barrier. The results showed that the die attached on the electroplated Ag substrate could support more than 800 h during HTS at 350 °C in air, which was doubled the reliability of the ENIG finished substrate.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (405KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Zn0.5Cd0.5S@RGO nanocomposites were fabricated by a facile method.•The GS-0.5 sample with a suitable RGO content exhibits the best performance.•RGO in the composite can improve the dispersion of metal alloys and enhance the conductivity.•The mechanism of charge transfers between metal alloys and RGO is proposed.•RGO can function as electron collector to prolong the lifetime of the charge carriers.AbstractThe reduced graphene oxide (RGO) loaded Zn0.5Cd0.5S nanocomposite has been successfully prepared by a facile solvothermal method. The as-prepared photocatalysts were characterized by a combination of X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and N2 absorption-desorption. The Zn0.5Cd0.5S@RGO composites with a RGO content of 0.5 wt% (GS-0.5) showed the highest photocatalytic activity for the degradation of various dyes (methylene blue, methyl orange and Rhodamine B), which is mainly due to the uniform dispersion of nanoparticles on RGO sheets and the enhanced separation rate of photo-induced electrons and holes. The GS-0.5 photocatalyst can be repetitively used without significant loss of activity. This new material holds great promise for applications in the field of water purification as well as optoelectronic fields at a large scale.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (367KB)Download full-size image
As direct effector cells for osteogenesis, osteoblastic cells are commonly used for evaluating the in vitro osteogenic capacity of bone biomaterials, and the traditional biological principle for developing bone biomaterials is to directly stimulate osteogenic differentiation. With this principle, most efforts are currently spent on optimizing the bio-mechanical and physicochemical properties to induce osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells. This strategy has achieved certain success in the development of bone biomaterials; however, inconsistencies between in vitro and in vivo studies are not uncommon, implying the mechanisms that govern the material's capacity to mediate osteogenesis is not well-understood. Osteoimmunology has revealed the vital role of immune cells in regulating bone dynamics. Neglecting the importance of the immune response is a major shortcoming of the traditional strategy, and may explain inconsistencies between in vitro and in vivo conditions. Here, we proposed osteoimmunomodulation (OIM) in recognition of the importance of the immune response during biomaterial-mediated osteogenesis. Accordingly, we proposed the paradigm shift of bone biomaterials to an osteoimmunomodulatory material and discussed the evaluation strategy for the osteoimmunomodulation property of bone biomaterials. It is the ambition of authors that this review will change traditional methods for bone biomaterials assessment and assist in developing new bone biomaterials with the osteoimmunomodulatory property for orthopedic and dental applications.
AbstractThe effect of sodium on the electrochemical behavior of lithium in alkaline electrolyte with additives was investigated via hydrogen evolution rate, discharge current density, anodic potential, XRD (X-ray diffraction) and SEM (scanning electron microscope) in this paper. The results show that minor addition of sodium to lithium slightly decreases the hydrogen evolution at the electrode. Addition of 0.057 wt.% Na to lithium has a minor effect on discharge current and anodic potential of lithium anode. The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) result shows that the lithium–sodium alloy surface is less porous than the lithium surface. Theoretical analysis indicates that the water activity at the Li–Na anode/electrolyte interface is reduced by LiOH + NaOH solution formation. Hydrogen evolution decrease, prompted by the addition of sodium to lithium, is related to the water activity reduction at the metal/electrolyte interface and reduced porosity of the film.Highlights► Li and Li–Na alloy as lithium–water battery anode. ► Hydrogen inhibition effect in alkaline aqueous electrolyte. ► Sodium introduction reduce the activity of water through theory analysis. ► Sodium affects both anodic and cathodic reactions leaving the efficiency the same.

AbstractColumn experiments and numerical simulation were conducted to test the hypothesis that iron material having a high corrosion rate is not beneficial for the long-term performance of iron permeable reactive barriers (PRBs) because of faster passivation of iron and greater porosity loss close to the influent face of the PRBs. Four iron materials (Connelly, Gotthart-Maier, Peerless, and ISPAT) were used for the column experiments, and the changes in reactivity toward cis-dichloroethene (cis-DCE) degradation in the presence of dissolved CaCO3 were evaluated. The experimental results showed that the difference in distribution of the accumulated precipitates, resulting from differences in iron corrosion rate, caused a difference in the migration rate of the cis-DCE profiles and a significant difference in the pattern of passivation, indicating a faster passivation in the region close to the influent end for the material having a higher corrosion rate. For the numerical simulation, the accumulation of secondary minerals and reactivity loss of iron were coupled using an empirically-derived relationship that was incorporated into a multi-component reactive transport model. The simulation results provided a reasonable representation of the evolution of iron reactivity toward cis-DCE treatment and the changes in geochemical conditions for each material, consistent with the observed data. The simulations for long-term performance were also conducted to further test the hypothesis and predict the differences in performance over a period of 40 years under typical groundwater conditions. The predictions showed that the cases of higher iron corrosion rates had earlier cis-DCE breakthrough and more reduction in porosity starting from near the influent face, due to more accumulation of carbonate minerals in that region. Therefore, both the experimental and simulation results appear to support the hypothesis and suggest that reactivity changes of iron materials resulting from evolution of geochemical conditions should be considered in the design of iron PRBs.
AbstractAl–Si eutectic alloy is a kind of ideal high temperature phase change materials (PCMs) because of its high latent heat and good heat transfer performance. However, it is difficult for Al–Si alloy to be safely applied because of its causticity and incompatibility. In this paper, an inorganic Al–Si/Al2O3 micro-particles core/shell structure was prepared by the sol–gel process with the modification of silane coupling agent. The direct evidence for the forming of the dense and stable α-Al2O3 shell layer, whose thickness is about 3–5 μm, is presented by means of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD). In terms of the analyses of Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) and thermogravimetry (TG), it is apparent that the silane coupling agent is successfully grafted on the surface of Al–Si alloy micro-particles, which promotes the condensation between boehmite sols and silanol groups. The latent heat of the encapsulated Al–Si alloy was 307.21 kJ/kg and decreased during the process of microencapsulation. The reasons for the reduction of the latent heat are the excess alumina sols and the depletion of Al–Si alloy.
AbstractGypsum plasterworks and decorative surfaces are easily degraded, especially when exposed to humidity, and thus they require protection and/or consolidation. However, the conservation of historical gypsum-based structural and decorative materials by conventional organic and inorganic consolidants shows limited efficacy. Here, a new method based on the bioconsolidation capacity of carbonatogenic bacteria inhabiting the material was assayed on historical gypsum plasters and compared with conventional consolidation treatments (ethyl silicate; methylacrylate–ethylmethacrylate copolymer and polyvinyl butyral). Conventional products do not reach in-depth consolidation, typically forming a thin impervious surface layer which blocks pores. In contrast, the bacterial treatment produces vaterite (CaCO3) biocement, which does not block pores and produces a good level of consolidation, both at the surface and in-depth, as shown by drilling resistance measurement system analyses. Transmission electron microscopy analyses show that bacterial vaterite cement formed via oriented aggregation of CaCO3 nanoparticles (∼20 nm in size), resulting in mesocrystals which incorporate bacterial biopolymers. Such a biocomposite has superior mechanical properties, thus explaining the fact that drilling resistance of bioconsolidated gypsum plasters is within the range of inorganic calcite materials of equivalent porosity, despite the fact that the bacterial vaterite cement accounts for only a 0.02 solid volume fraction. Bacterial bioconsolidation is proposed for the effective consolidation of this type of material. The potential applications of bacterial calcium carbonate consolidation of gypsum biomaterials used as bone graft substitutes are discussed.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (182KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•The loosening of the structure and increasing the particle size of the photocatalysts due to ILs use.•ILs caused the increase of specific surface area and pore volume.•The beneficial influence of the ILs use on the energy band gap value of bismuth-based semiconductors.•ILs used as a halogen source improved the photocatalytic activity of bismuth oxyhalides.AbstractThis is the first report of the effect of the ILs cation type (imidazolium, pyridinium and pyrrolidinium) on the morphology, surface properties and photoactivity of BiOX semiconductors type obtained by solvothermal method in glycerol. The various ionic liquids (IL) cation type as a halogen source and templating agent for the synthesis of the bismuth oxyhalides nanoparticles has been systematically investigated. The role of ILs in synthesis of the semiconductors was loosening of the structure and increasing the particle size of semiconductors. It was also found that ILs increased specific surface area and pore volume of bismuth oxyhalides. Rhodamine B and 5-fluorouracil were used as the model contaminates to evaluate the adsorption capacity and photooxidation performance of studied BiOX. Removal of chromium (VI) from acidic solution were demonstrated photoreduction ability of BiOX. Generally the activity of bismuth oxyhalides was better for the samples prepared with ILs, although the increase in activity was different for various ionic liquids. The changes of band gap structure were major causes of the enhanced photocatalytic activity of bismuth oxyhalides with ILs as the halogen source.
Highlights•Dynamic mechanical analysis (DMA) was used to study four different industrial topcoats.•Tg varies widely depending on cure chemistry, composition and crosslink density.•Creep recovery is a critical factor for improved durability in topcoats.•Crosslink density and Tg change considerably after artificial weathering.•DMA study gives valuable indications about the long-term performance properties.AbstractDynamic mechanical analysis (DMA) represents one of the most important methods for understanding mechanical behaviour of surface coatings providing a valuable link between chemistry, morphology, and performance properties. In this work, dynamic mechanical properties of several high performance industrial coatings were studied extensively. Four commercially available topcoats namely alkyd modified polyurethane (PU), economy aliphatic PU, high performance aliphatic PU and epoxy modified polysiloxane were selected based on their cure chemistries, volume solids, and overall performance. DMA was used to determine elastic modulus, glass transition temperature (Tg), crosslink density and creep behaviour of these coatings. DMA data were substantiated with mechanical and performance properties. Among the coatings, epoxy modified polysiloxane showed the highest Tg of 65.6 °C as well as crosslink density value of 2.24 × 10−3 mol/cc which was attributed to its superior mechanical and performance properties. In addition, topcoats were also subjected to artificial aging process in accelerated cyclic corrosion cabinet and QUV-weatherometer, respectively. The consequent changes in their physico-mechanical properties post exposure were also evaluated using DMA and correlated with other performance properties. After aging, the Tg increased substantially for all the coatings irrespective of their exposure type. For example, Tg of economy aliphatic PU increases from 38.4 °C to 52.9 °C and 51 °C after cyclic corrosion and UV-B weathering, respectively. However, crosslink densities either increased or decreased depending on the type of exposure and cure chemistries. These changes were corroborated using the Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy findings. The outcome of this study is expected to generate new insights into the behaviour of these coatings under dynamic mechanical stress and its relation with long term performance properties.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractThe effect of the I-/I3-<math><mrow is="true"><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msup><mo is="true">/</mo><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">3</mn></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msubsup></mrow></math> redox pair electrolyte in the structural, electrochemical and capacitive properties of micrometric and nanometric PEDOT films have been examined. The thickness of the films has been found to play a key role on the capacitive properties, outstanding electrochemical properties being achieved at the nanometric scale. Electrochemical and capacitive properties were extensively investigated using cyclic voltammetry, recurrent galvanostatic pulse, chronopotentiometry and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy techniques. Results evidenced that nanometric PEDOT films exhibit very high electrochemical stabilities and excellent specific capacitances (∼185 F g−1), the latter being preserved in ∼94% after 2000 cycles in a I-/I3-<math><mrow is="true"><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msup><mo is="true">/</mo><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">3</mn></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msubsup></mrow></math> -containing solution. Morphological studies revealed that the electrochemical and capacitive properties of PEDOT films are significantly influenced by their porosity, this property being relatively unaffected by the I-/I3-<math><mrow is="true"><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msup><mo is="true">/</mo><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">3</mn></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msubsup></mrow></math> redox pair. The overall results allowed us to conclude that nanometric PEDOT films in presence of I-/I3-<math><mrow is="true"><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msup><mo is="true">/</mo><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">3</mn></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msubsup></mrow></math> are promising candidates to be employed as supercapacitors.Graphical abstractDownload full-size imageHighlights► The stability of nanometric PEDOT films in I-/I3-<math><mrow is="true"><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msup><mo is="true">/</mo><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">3</mn></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msubsup></mrow></math>-containing solutions is very high. ► The porosity of PEDOT is not affected by the formation of charge-transfer with iodine. ► PEDOT films in presence of I-/I3-<math><mrow is="true"><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msup><mo is="true">/</mo><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">3</mn></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msubsup></mrow></math> are promising supercapacitors.
Highlights•Boswellia serrata gum (BSG), an environmental-friendly extract was evaluated as a corrosion inhibitor.•The inhibition efficiency of Boswellia serrata gum reached 91.8% at 500 ppm in 1 M HCl at 30 °C.•Boswellia serrata gum behaved as a mixed type of inhibitor.•The adsorption of Boswellia serrata gum on mild steel surface obeys Langmuir adsorption model.•DFT study shows good adsorption of BSG on the steel surface.AbstractBoswellia serrata gum (BSG) was studied as a new sustainable corrosion inhibitor for the protection of low carbon steel (LCS) in 1 M HCl solution employing standard experimental techniques. FT-IR was accomplished to characterize the inhibitor and to assess the functional groups which caused its adsorption on the surface of LCS. Compared to other studied plant exudates BSG acted as a more efficient inhibitor at relatively lower concentration thus qualifying it as cost-effective and more practical acid inhibitor. The corrosion mitigating efficacy are both temperature and concentration dependent. The inhibition efficiency decreased with temperature but progressively increased with increase in BSG concentration; the maximum efficiency of 91.9% is observed at 30 °C at BSG concentration of 500 ppm. As evidenced by PDP measurements BSG acted as mixed type inhibitor with dominant anodic effect. The existence of protective layer, attributed to the adsorbed constituent polysaccharides, at the LCS surface was revealed by EIS measurements. The adsorption of the studied inhibitor on LCS surface obeyed Langmuir adsorption isotherm. Gravimetric data supported well the electrochemical results and further established that inhibition efficacy of BSG remains appreciably high during long exposure to the studied medium revealing its extra stability in HCl solution. SEM/EDX/AFM results substantiated the inhibitive effect of adsorbed BSG constituents on the LCS surface. Spectroscopic studies like UV–visible and FT-IR indicated the existence of [inhibitor-Fe2+] in inhibited acid solution. Mechanism of inhibition was also researched by computing relevant activation and thermodynamic parameters and experimental results are corroborated by computed quantum chemical parameters.Graphical abstractSchematic diagram representing the adsorption mechanism of BSG constituents on LCS surface.Download high-res image (149KB)Download full-size image
Publisher SummaryThis chapter discusses the preparation and characterization of zeolite membranes. Zeolites are crystalline, hydrated aluminosilicates with microporous regular structures. The zeolite micropores are of molecular size, which give them adsorption, catalytic properties, and ion exchange properties, which are of paramount importance in both the industrial chemical field and for the study of new applications related to, inter alia, process intensification, green chemistry, hybrid materials, and medicine. The ability to grow zeolites on porous supports can produce devices with specific properties, such as membranes, membrane reactors, microreactors, reactive, and nonreactive gas sensors. The formation of a zeolite membrane requires the development of a continuous, defect-free, nearly bidimensional layer of zeolite crystals, so that only transport through the zeolite pores takes place. The usual procedure for this consists of depositing zeolite crystals onto a previously existing porous support, which confers the necessary mechanical strength and allows the development of more extensive structures. Some issues relating to zeolite membranes that require special attention are (1) the influence of the support, (2) calcination of the membrane, (3) possible posttreatments of the membrane, and (4) two-layered and zoned zeolite membranes.
AbstractEthnopharmacological relevanceMany herbal topical formulations have been marketed worldwide to prevent hair loss or promote hair growth. Certain in vivo studies have shown promising results among them; however, the effectiveness of their bioactive constituents remains unknown.Aim of the studyRecently, prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) inhibition has been discovered as a pharmacological mechanism for treating androgenic alopecia (AGA). This present study was aimed to identify prostaglandin D2 synthase (PTGDS) inhibitors in traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs) for treating AGA.Materials and methodsIn this study, 389 constituents of 12 selected herbs were docked into 6 different crystal structures of PTGDS. The accuracy of the docking methods was successfully validated with experimental data from the ZINC In Man (Zim) database using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) studies. Seven essential drug properties were predicted for topical formulation: skin permeability, sensitisation, irritation, corrosion, mutagenicity, tumorigenicity and reproductive effects.ResultsMany constituents of the twelve herbs were found to have more advanced binding energies than the experimentally proved PTGDS inhibitors, but many of them were indicative of at least one type of skin adverse reactions, and exhibited poor skin permeability.ConclusionsOverall, ricinoleic acid, acteoside, amentoflavone, quercetin-3-O-rutinoside and hinokiflavone were predicted to be PTGDS inhibitors with good pharmacokinetic properties and minimal adverse skin reactions. These compounds have the highest potential for further in vitro and in vivo investigation with the aim of developing safe and high-efficacy hair loss treatment.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (247KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•For the first time, 31P-NMR and 19F-NMR were employed to understand the effect of ethanol on the formation bio-oil.•Ethanol significantly increased the bio-oil and decreased the residue yield.•Addition of ethanol increased the hydroxyl concentration while decreased the carbonyl concentration.•More aliphatic and less phenolic type OH was obtained when ethanol was used as a co-solvent.AbstractThe goal of this study was to investigate the role of ethanol and temperature on the hydroxyl and carbonyl groups in biopolyol produced from hydrothermal liquefaction of loblolly pine (Pinus spp.) carried out at 250, 300, 350 and 390 °C for 30 min. Water and water/ethanol mixture (1/1, wt/wt) were used as liquefying solvent in the HTL experiments. HTL in water and water/ethanol is donated as W-HTL and W/E-HTL, respectively. It was found that 300 °C and water/ethanol solvent was the optimum liquefaction temperature and solvent, yielding up to 68.1 wt.% bio-oil and 2.4 wt.% solid residue. 31P-NMR analysis showed that biopolyol produced by W-HTL was rich in phenolic OH while W/E-HTL produced more aliphatic OH rich biopolyols. Moreover, biopolyols with higher hydroxyl concentration were produced by W/E-HTL. Carbonyl groups were analyzed by 19F-NMR, which showed that ethanol reduced the concentration of carbonyl groups.
Highlights•Intensified designs exhibit smaller variations in treatment efficacy than conventional designs.•Intensified designs performed at least as good as a municipal WWTP treating the same wastewater.•First-order removal rates and temperature correction factors for EOCs are reported.AbstractSix pilot-scale treatment wetlands treating municipal wastewater were monitored for classical wastewater parameters and selected Emerging Organic Compounds (EOCs): caffeine (CAF), ibuprofen (IBU), naproxen (NPX), benzotriazole (BTZ), diclofenac (DCL), acesulfame (ACE) and carbamazepine (CBZ) on a weekly basis over the course of one year. Treatment efficacy of the wetland systems was compared to that of a municipal wastewater treatment plant adjacent to the research site (activated sludge technology). The aerated wetlands VAp and HAp, and the two-stage vertical flow system VGp + VSp showed the highest treatment efficacy (>70% removal on a mass basis) and comparable treatment efficacy to the conventional WWTP for removal of CAF, IBU, NPX, BTZ, and DCL. Annual mass removal of ACE in the WWTP was 50% and varied in the wetlands (depending on system design) from zero to 62%. On a mean monthly basis, ACE removal in the treatment wetlands VGp + VSp, VAp, HAp, R was high (> 90%) for six months of the year. Monthly mean mass removal of CBZ was negligible for the WWTP and all treatment wetland systems except H50p, which showed up to 49% mass removal in June. Monthly mean mass removals of classical wastewater parameters and readily biodegradable EOCs (represented by CAF, IBU, NPX) were most stable in the intensified wetland designs VAp, HAp, and R. A statistical analysis confirms that system complexity, aerobic conditions, and temperature have the highest correlation to overall pollutant removal in the treatment wetland systems, including EOCs of high to moderate biodegradability. First-order removal rate coefficents and temperature correction factors for EOCs are reported for the first time in the treatment wetland literature. Limitations on the use of these values in engineering design are discussed.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (410KB)Download full-size image
Highlights•Flexible side chains improve solubility and affect polyazomethine PPI properties.•PPI with the BOO flexible chains turned out to be better conjugated and planar.•Absorption spectra indicate that flexible side chains affect delocalized states.•Absorption edge parameters confirm better conjugation and chain order of BOO-PPI.•Experimental results are in accord with the geometry optimization calculations.AbstractSynthesis of a soluble derivative of a basic aromatic polyazomethine, i.e. poly(1,4-(2,5-bisoctyloxy-phenylene-methylenenitrilo)-1,4-phenylene-nitrilomethylidyne) BOO-PPI, enabled us to prepare thin films of this polymer by spin coating technique. Transmission and fundamental reflectivity measurements, within the spectral range of 0.49–6.20 eV, have been performed to obtain the absorption coefficient spectra of both BOO-PPI and un-substituted, i.e. poly(1,4-phenylene-methylenenitrilo-1,4-phenylene-nitrilomethylidyne) PPI thin films. An amorphous character of the obtained films allowed us to determine the absorption edge parameters, in the way typical for amorphous semiconductors. Both the Urbach energy (EU) and the Tauc energy gap (EG) were found to decrease from 130 to 93 meV and from 2.30 to 2.19 eV, respectively, when the flexible side chains are linked to the polyazomethine chain. A better conjugation and planarization of the BOO-PPI polymer chain, as compared to PPI, have been confirmed by the results of attenuated total reflection mode of the Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy measurements and geometry optimization calculations. The wide-angle X-ray diffraction (WAXRD) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) studies of BOO-PPI and PPI films complemented the results of the UV-Vis-NIR spectroscopy investigations.
AbstractWater soluble lignin graft copolymer (LGC) was synthesized using oil palm empty fruit bunch (OPEFB) fibre as a renewable biomass source. Initially, Kraft lignin (KL) was extracted by exploiting the OPEFB fibre Kraft pulping residue. KL was grafted with acrylic acid (AA) by using p-toluenesulfonic acid (PTS) as a catalyst in the condensation process via the bulk technique. The resulting copolymer was characterized by a Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetry-Fourier transform infrared (TG-FTIR) and carbon–hydrogen–nitrogen analyzer (CHN). The FTIR spectrum of the product showed absorption due to the presence of ester bonds as a proof of grafting. The DSC and TG-FTIR results showed significant improvements in the KL thermal properties at least 27.261% as well as a thermal degradation resistance. The elements percentages of KL compositions were changed as shown by the CHN data. SEM micrographs illustrated the grafting reaction homogenizing the KL morphological structure.
AbstractThe influence of organic additives on the crystal growth of different calcite morphologies in two crystallization processes operating under steady state and batch mode is described. The crystal growth kinetics and overgrown morphological observations of rhombohedral, scalenohedral and prismatic calcite seed crystals in the systems containing etidronic acid (HEDP) and tartaric acid (TA) were investigated. The crystallization systems were of low supersaturations (SI<1.1) and of moderate pH (8.0). Kinetic parameters of the crystal growth in the presence of selected additives, such as reduction of the growth rates, rate constant and reduced critical supersaturation were calculated and correlated with additive concentration and different calcite seeds. The results indicate strong interactions of HEDP molecules and weak but specific interactions of TA for calcite surfaces. Interactions occur at the step edges which finally results in the expression of near-{hk0} faces and highly polar faces, consisting of solely Ca layer on the surface, stabilised by TA and HEDP molecules, respectively. The affinity of both additives is significantly higher for scalenohedral and prismatic calcite in contrast to rhombohedral calcite seeds. The effect of calcite seed morphology was attributed to different surface energetics of the predominant crystal faces of the studied calcite seeds.Highlights► Crystal growth of different calcite morphologies in presence of additives was studied. ► Etidronic acid (HEDP) and tartaric acid (TA) were used as growth modifiers. ► Crystal growth kinetics and morphology affected by additives were described. ► Crystal surface energetics plays an important role in the calcite-additive interactions.
AbstractAs a possible means of alleviating carbonation-induced reinforcement corrosion in aging reinforced structures, electrochemical injection of corrosion inhibitors has been proposed. This method involves application of aqueous solutions of organic base corrosion inhibitors onto the concrete surface with controlled current densities passed between anodes placed within the inhibitor solutions and the embedded steel bars acting as cathodes. This present contribution describes a site trial of electrochemical inhibitor injection applied to a 40-year-old carbonated high-speed railway viaduct in Tokyo. The efficiency of inhibitor penetration to the embedded reinforcement and the electrochemical effects brought about by the proposed method are discussed.
AbstractA series of MnxCd1−xS (MCS) solid solutions hollow spheres (x=0.0, 0.20, 0.33, 0.50 and 0.67) have been synthesized with the assistance of l-Glutathione (GSH) by a simple hydrothermal route for the first time. Different characterization techniques, including X-Ray diffraction (XRD), atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Brunauer-Emmett-Teller surface area (BET), UV–vis and diffuse reflectance spectra (DRS) are performed to investigate the structural and optical properties of the as-prepared samples. The experiment of rhodamine B (RhB) decoloration indicates that all the MCS samples show higher photo-catalytic activities than commercial CdS under visible light irradiation. Among them, the Mn0.33Cd0.67S exhibits the highest photo-catalytic activity. The superior photo-catalytic activity of MCS samples may be attributed predominantly to the synergistic effect of the appropriate band-gap structure as well as the special hollow spherical morphology which makes MCS samples have the ability to harvest exciting visible-light due to multiple scattering within the interior space. Furthermore, the Mn0.33Cd0.67S shows well stability, the photo-catalytic activities do not decrease significantly after six recycles. The work may open a novel strategy to fabricate multi-component chalcogenide solid solutions hollow spheres.
AbstractHexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (C3H6N3(NO2)3, royal demolition explosive or RDX) is a common nitramine explosive and one of the major constituents in wastewaters from ammunitions plants. The objective of this study is to investigate zero-valent iron (Fe(0)) pretreatment for enhancing the biodegradability of recalcitrant RDX. It was hypothesized that iron pretreatment can reductively transform RDX to products that are more amenable to biological treatment processes such as activated sludge. Results of batch and column experiments showed rapid and complete removal of RDX by Fe(0) regardless of the buffering capacity. Formaldehyde (HCHO), a major reduction product of RDX, was readily biodegraded by a mixed culture. Respirometric data indicate that iron-treated RDX solution exerted substantially higher biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) than untreated RDX solution. We propose that an integrated iron reduction—activated sludge process may be a feasible option for treating RDX-laden wastewater.
Highlights•A novel porous carbon supported nickel catalyst is prepared via ion-exchange.•The characteristics of Ni/RC rely on pH value and carbonization temperature.•The catalyst is effective for reforming tarry materials in corncob gasification.•Ni/RC is a potential candidate for H2-rich gas production from biomass.AbstractA novel porous carbon catalyst was prepared by carbonization of D151 resin exchanged with nickel ion (Ni/RC). TEM images and XRD patterns manifest that nickel crystallite size (NCS) relies greatly on solution pH value and carbonization temperature. The as-prepared Ni/RC in pH 11 at 650 °C achieved the maximal specific surface area of 213 m2/g and metallic nickel particles are highly dispersed with a NCS of 5.7 nm. Ni/RC exhibited higher activity for corncob tar reforming than commercial Ni/Al2O3 and produced a gas yield of 46.8 mmol/g at 650 °C. The nickel particles growth above 650 °C causes the decline in catalytic activity of Ni/RC. In the presence of steam, a high tar-free gas of 84.5 mmol/g was obtained at 650 °C. This study sheds light on the possibility of Ni/RC as a promising candidate for H2-rich gas production from biomass under mild conditions.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (185KB)Download full-size image
AbstractEIS and SEM techniques were applied to study processes occurring on the Sn electrode in Sn(II) gluconate solutions containing an excess of sulphate at 3 < pH < 5. Adsorption and kinetic parameters were obtained using the equivalent circuits derived for electrochemical processes involving adsorption steps.In the case of Sn(II)-free gluconate solutions, pH slightly affected impedance spectra. The most pronounced pH effect was observed for Sn(II) containing solutions: the impedance increased by 2 orders of magnitude, when pH was raised from 3 to 5. At the same time, a respective decrease in the capacitance of charged interface and in the exchange current density was detected.The revealed phenomena are interpreted in terms of formation of adsorption layer the inhibitive character of which is conditioned by species containing Sn2+ and OH− ions. The possible structure of adsorption layer is discussed.
Highlights•Silver nanoparticles were synthesized using a solution combustion method.•It is an fcc crystalline structure with particle size of 59 mm.•The prepared silver nanoparticle is a rod like structure.•CS is adsorbed by tilted orientation on the silver surface.•HF calculations are also performed to study the vibrational features of CS.AbstractIn the present study, the silver nanoparticles were synthesized using a solution combustion method with urea as fuel. The prepared silver nanoparticles show an FCC crystalline structure with particle size of 59 nm. FESEM image shows the prepared silver is a rod like structure. The surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) spectrum indicates that the N-(1-(2-chlorophenyl)-2-(2-nitrophenyl)ethyl)-4-methylbenzenesulfonamide (CS) molecule adsorbed on the silver nanoparticles. The spectral analysis reveals that the sulfonamide is adsorbed by tilted orientation on the silver surface. The Hatree Fock calculations were also performed to predict the vibrational motions of CS. This present investigation has been a model system to deduce the interaction of drugs with DNA.Graphical abstractDownload full-size image
AbstractVarious chemical treatments have been applied to six brown, red and green seaweed species with a view to enhancing their metal removal for Cu(II), Cr(III) and Cr(VI). Treatment with acetone resulted in the greatest enhancement for both cationic and anionic species with relatively low mass losses (15–35%), indicating its low risk to biomass operational stability. Cation binding was increased by 69%, while the total Cr removal was augmented by 15%. Cr(VI) binding was shown to be an adsorption-coupled reduction, whereby Cr(VI) was bound to the biomass surface at pH 2 and subsequently reduced to Cr(III). Acetone treatment also resulted in biomasses that were capable of converting up to 83% of Cr(VI) in solution to Cr(III). Blocking of carboxyl and amino functionalities had significant negative effects both on total Cr removal as well as percentage conversion of Cr(VI) to Cr(III). Results therefore indicated the significant role played by these moieties in metal binding to these seaweeds. Potentiometric titrations displayed agreement between the degree of esterification and the decrease in Cu(II) removal for Ulva spp. and Polysiphonia lanosa. FTIR analysis identified changes in biomass functionality and availability after chemical modification, the results of which were in agreement with metal removal studies. In conclusion, these biosorbents represent suitable candidates to replace conventional removal technologies for metal bearing wastewaters, in particular for the detoxification of hazardous Cr(VI) waste streams.
Highlights•PBI-based HT-PEMFCs are described along with their design practices.•Characterization techniques commonly used in HT-PEMFC study are summarized.•HT-PEMFC degradation mechanisms and mitigation techniques are reviewed.•The current status and future prospects of HT-PEMFC technology are discussed.AbstractThe current status on the understanding of the various operational aspects of high temperature proton exchange membrane fuel cells (HT-PEMFC) has been summarized. The paper focuses on phosphoric acid-doped polybenzimidazole (PBI)-based HT-PEMFCs and an overview of the common practices of their design and characterization techniques at single cell, stack and system levels is given. The state-of-the-art concepts of different degradation mechanisms and methods of their mitigation are also discussed. Moreover, accelerated stress testing (AST) procedures for HT-PEMFCs available in literature are outlined. Catalyst degradation and electrolyte loss take place at higher rates in the beginning of life of the fuel cell. This is due to the smaller size of Pt particles and the presence of excess phosphoric acid in the beginning of life that favor the respective degradation. Therefore, the redistribution of phosphoric acid in the membrane and the electrodes is crucial for the proper activation of the fuel cell, and a startup procedure should take this into account in order to avoid beginning of life degradation. On-line monitoring of the fuel cell system's state of health using diagnostic tools can help detect fuel cell faults for targeted interventions based on the observed conditions to prevent sudden failures and to prolong the fuel cell's lifetime. However, the technology is still under development and robust on-line diagnostics tools are hardly available. Currently, mitigation is mainly done based on favorable operating conditions and techniques to recover degradation and the development of more resistant components that can withstand the known degradation mechanisms.
AbstractThe effect of an ultrathin, regularly arranged polymer film on prevention of passive film breakdown on iron in the presence of chloride ion was investigated. The film of two-dimensional polymer was prepared by modification of a 16-hydroxyhexadecanoate ion HO(CH2)15CO2-<math><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">HO</mi><mo stretchy="false" is="true">(</mo><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">CH</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn></mrow></msub><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mo stretchy="false" is="true">)</mo></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">15</mn></mrow></msub><msubsup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">CO</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo></mrow></msubsup></mrow></math> self-assembled monolayer adsorbed on a passivated iron electrode with 1,2-bis(triethoxysilyl)ethane(C2H5O)3Si(CH2)2Si(OC2H5)3 and octyltriethoxysilane C8H17Si(OC2H5)3. The pitting potentials of the passivated electrodes bare and covered with the polymer film were determined by anodic polarization measurements in a borate buffer solution containing 0.1 M of Cl−. The pitting potential of the coated electrode was higher than that of the uncoated one, indicating prevention of passive film breakdown. No breakdown was observed over the potential range in the passive and transpassive regions by covering the passive film with the well-arranged two-dimensional polymer film. The film was characterized by X-ray photoelectron and FTIR reflection spectroscopies and measurement of the contact angle with a drop of water.
Highlights•Ionic liquid and dimethylacetamide were investigated as protective film-forming additive.•The additives formed a stable surface layer on LiNi0.5M1.5O4, which suppressed the electrolyte decomposition during cycling.•The additives reduced the flammability of the electrolyte and improved the thermal stability of the LiNi0.5M1.5O4 electrode.AbstractDimethylacetamide (DMAc) and triethyl(2-methoxyethyl)phosphonium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide (TEMEP-TFSI) are investigated as protective additives for high voltage LiNi0.5Mn1.5O4 cathode materials. The capacity retention of Li/LiNi0.5Mn1.5O4 cells is improved by adding these additives to the base liquid electrolyte. The self-extinguishing time and DSC results demonstrate that the addition of TEMEP-TFSI to the base electrolyte is effective in reducing the flammability of the electrolyte solution and improving the thermal stability of the LiNi0.5Mn1.5O4 electrode. TEM and XPS analyses of the LiNi0.5Mn1.5O4 electrode reveal that DMAc and TEMEP-TFSI participate in the formation of a stable solid electrolyte interphase (SEI) on the LiNi0.5Mn1.5O4 electrode, and the resulting SEI layer effectively suppresses electrolyte decomposition.
Highlights•Corrosion inhibition by benzimidazole in acid medium.•DFT study on interaction of benzimdazole with on Fe30.•Electrochemical impedance and polarization curves of inhibitor on mild steel in acid medium.•Comparative analysis of amine, pyridine, and benzimidazole ligands.AbstractThe corrosion inhibition of N,N′-bis(benzimidazole-2-yl-methyl)amine (L1) and N, N′-bis(benzimidazole-2-yl-methyl)hydroxyethylamine (L2) was analyzed by electrochemical and theoretical methods. The data show that ligands form an adsorption layer over an iron surface, obeying the Langmuir isotherm (ΔGads°<math><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">Δ</mo><msubsup is="true"><mi is="true">G</mi><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">a</mi><mi is="true">d</mi><mi is="true">s</mi></mrow><mi mathvariant="normal" is="true">°</mi></msubsup></mrow></math> of −32.96 kJ mol−1); the value are higher than −20 kJ mol−1 but less than −40 kJ mol−1, belonging to a conversion stage of physical adsorption to chemical adsorption or a comprehensive adsorption. This is consistent with fractal dimension of the electrode surface, estimated by an impedance depression angle of a semicircle that the surface is homogeneously covered by the formation of an inhibitor film. Furthermore, the electronic parameters of the ligands were analyzed by DFT, showing that L1 and L2 possesses corrosion inhibition properties that give up its p orbital electron density through its HOMO orbital to the metal LUMO to form an adsorption layer, and this has been proved theoretically by the interaction of ligands with Fe30. In addition, we have collected corrosion inhibition data for around 70 organic compounds reported in the literature, and the inhibition data plotted against different inhibitors, showing that amine ligands are good corrosion inhibitors.
AbstractN-Phenyl oxalic dihydrazide (PODH) and oxalic N-phenylhydrazide N′-phenylthiosemicarbazide (OPHPT), synthesized in our laboratory, were tested as inhibitors for the corrosion of mild steel in molar HCl by electrochemical measurements. Inhibition efficiencies up to 92% for OPHPT and 79% for PODH can be obtained. Polarization curves reveal that PODH and OPHPT act as mixed type inhibitors. Adsorption of these inhibitors on the mild steel surface was found to obey the Langmuir adsorption isotherm. Results show that the rate of corrosion of mild steel increased with increasing temperature over the range 25–55 °C both in the presence of inhibitors and in their absence. Activation energies in the presence and absence of PODH and OPHPT were obtained by measuring the temperature dependence of the corrosion current. The reactivity of these compounds was analyzed through theoretical calculations based on density functional theory to explain the different efficiency of these compounds as corrosion inhibitors.
AbstractIn this work we report the results of a combined biochemical and electrochemical study aimed to analyze both the growth of biofilms of Pseudomonas fluorescens on copper samples and its possible role in the instability of the metal/electrolyte interface.DNA and RNA were quantified along the time for biofilms grown on copper and glass to estimate both the growth of the bacterial population and its metabolic state (through the RNA/DNA ratio). The expression and specific activity of catalase were also determined to gain insight into their possible role in corrosion acceleration. The electrochemical behavior of the biofilm/copper interface was monitored by Linear Polarization Resistance (Rp) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) along the experiments.Results showed a longer lag phase for biofilms developing on copper that included a period of high metabolic activity (as measured by the RNA/DNA ratio) without biomass growth. Biological activity introduced a new time constant at intermediate frequencies in EIS spectra whose capacitive behavior increased with the biofilm development. The increment in this biofilm-related signal was accompanied by a strong limitation to charge transfer through a diffusion controlled process probably due to oxygen exhaustion by cells respiration, while the resistance of the interface decreased presumably due to oxide dissolution by local acidification under the colonies. In addition, catalase activity was found to be high in mature copper-tolerant biofilms, which differentially express a catalase isoform not present in biofilms growing on glass.
AbstractA comparative study of 5-amino-1,2,4-triazole (5-ATA), 5-amino-3-mercapto-1,2,4-triazole (5-AMT), 5-amino-3-methylthio-1,2,4-triazole (5-AMeTT) and 1-amino-3-methylthio-1,2,4-triazole (1-AMeTT) as inhibitors for mild steel corrosion in 0.1 M HCl solution at 20 °C was carried out. Potentiodynamic polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) techniques were applied to study the metal corrosion behaviour in the absence and presence of different concentrations of these inhibitors under the influence of various experimental conditions. Measurements of open circuit potential (OCP) as a function of time till reaching the steady-state potentials (Est) were also established. The studies have shown that 5-AMT was the most efficient inhibitor reaching values of inhibition efficiency (IE%) up to 96% at a concentration of 10−3 M. Polarization curves showed that the four studied compounds act as mixed inhibitors. The potential of zero charge (PZC) of mild steel was determined in 0.1 M HCl in the absence and presence of the studied inhibitors. The effect of chemical structure of the four tested inhibitors was discussed. Results obtained from OCP versus time, polarization and impedance measurements are in good agreement.
AbstractEfficient catalytic oxidation of ethylbenzene to acetophenone was realized using the catalytic system of cobalt zeolitic imidazolate framework ZIF-67/N-hydroxyphthalimide (NHPI) under mild conditions. 95.2% conversion of ethylbenzene with 90.3% selectivity to acetophenone could be obtained at 373 K under 0.3 MPa O2 for 9 h. The results show that there exists synergetic effect between ZIF-67 and NHPI. 1-Phenylethyl hydroperoxide (PEHP) was generated via a radical process involving the hydrogen abstraction from ethylbenzene by phthalimide N-oxyl, and subsequently effectively decomposed to acetophenone by ZIF-67.Efficient catalytic oxidation of ethylbenzene to acetophenone was realized using ZIF-67/NHPI. 95.2% conversion of ethylbenzene with 90.3% selectivity to acetophenone can be obtained at 373 K under 0.3 MPa O2 for 9 h.Download full-size image
AbstractThe inhibitive action of 4-methyl pyrazole (4MP) against the corrosion of iron (99.9999%) in solutions of hydrochloric acid has been studied using potentiodynamic polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). At inhibitor concentration range (10−3–10−2 M) in 1.0 M acid, the results showed that 4MP suppressed mainly the anodic processes of iron corrosion in 1.0 M HCl by adsorption on the iron surface according to Temkin adsorption isotherm. Both potentiodynamic and EIS measurements reveal that 4MP inhibits the iron corrosion in 1.0 M HCl and that the efficiency increases with increasing inhibitor concentration. Data obtained from EIS were analyzed to model the corrosion inhibition process through an equivalent circuit.
AbstractThe influence of Pb2+ on the initial stages of Sn electrodeposition onto copper from methyl sulphonic acid solutions in the absence of organic additives has been investigated. Particular attention is placed on the effect of Pb2+ at concentrations much lower than previously reported and where no lead is detected in the resulting deposit. Linear sweep scans and i-t transients show that Pb2+ catalyzes Sn plating at Pb2+:Sn2+ molar concentration ratios between about 1:1000 and 20:1000. This effect can be significant, with as much as a 30% increase in the amount of tin deposited over that obtained in the absence of Pb2+ when the concentration ratio is 2:1000 or 5:1000. At concentration ratios above 20:1000, the effect disappears and, in fact, Pb2+ has an inhibitory effect on Sn2+ reduction. Under conditions where Pb2+ enhances Sn electrodeposition, it also begins to affect electrocrystallization by promoting faster nucleation and a more 2-dimensional coating that more rapidly covers the substrate. This trend continues as the Pb2+ concentration is further increased and the catalytic effect disappears.
Highlights•One-pot synthesis of novel hydrazinyl hydrazide (HDOP) derivative is described.•Both spectral and elemental analyses are used for characterization of the HDOP.•EIS, Tafel plots, SEM and EDX are used in the corrosion study in HCl and H2SO4.AbstractA new derivative of hydrazide family, 2-(2-hydrazinyl-1,6-dihydro-6-oxopyrimidin-4-yl) acetohydrazide (HDOP) is synthesized and used as a corrosion inhibitor for mild steel both in 1 M HCl and 0.5 M H2SO4 solutions. A facial synthesis of a novel hydrazinyl hydrazide derivative is accomplished via a one-pot synthesis. Reaction of ethyl 2-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-6-oxo-2-thiopyrimidin-4-yl)acetate (1) with hydrazine hydrate in an ethanol refluxing produces the target hydrazinyl hydrazide derivative in a good yield. Different techniques such as IR, NMR and mass spectroscopy are used for characterization of the obtained products. The inhibition of mild steel corrosion using HDOP in different concentrations is studied by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and polarization measurements. The inhibition efficiency (IE) of HDOP is found to be higher in HCl than that in H2SO4 solution. This is attributed to the stronger adsorption of Cl− on the iron surface which enables better synergism between Cl− and the protonated inhibitor. The HDOP acts mainly as a cathodic inhibitor (in both acid solutions) and an inhibition efficiency of ∼89% was obtained in the HCl solution. The free energy of adsorption obtained by applying Langmuir adsorption isotherm predicts physisorption of HDOP on the iron surface in the HCl solution.
AbstractThe effect of sodium eperuate prepared from Wallaba (Eperua falcata Aubl) extract on zinc corrosion was investigated in alkaline solutions with chloride ions (i.e., simulated concrete pore solutions) by using electrochemical techniques. Sodium eperuate inhibits the corrosion of zinc in 0.1 M NaCl solutions with pH 9.6. As its concentration increases to 1 g/L, the inhibition efficiency reaches approximately 92%. In alkaline solutions with pH 12.6, sodium eperuate has no adverse effect on passivity of zinc, and retards the chloride attack. These suggest that sodium eperuate is an effective inhibitor for the protection of zinc in alkaline environments.
Highlights•Previous works suggest the possible complex and spatially variable role of barnacles as bio-remodelers on rocky shores.•The role of barnacles as bio-remodelers was investigated at different spatial scales along the rocky coast of NW Italy.•An in situ manipulative experiment was carried out, based on a hierarchical spatial design and on rock hardness testing.•Barnacles play a bioprotective role at sub-surficial level, consistent across different spatial scales.•Barnacles can simultaneously act as bioeroders at surface level, likely fostering the dissolution of the carbonate rock.AbstractBioerosion and bioprotection (bio-remodeling) is the action exerted by biota colonizing rocky shores. It represents an important component among processes responsible for shaping coastal landforms, and a clear evidence of interaction between the biosphere and the solid earth. Barnacles extensively colonize the midlittoral belt of rocky shores in the Mediterranean Basin. Previous research, mostly based on laboratory evidence, suggests that barnacles are bioprotectors, in that they protect the rock surface from different types of physical and chemical weathering. In this paper, we present the results of a field experiment carried out at different spatial scales at two study areas along the moderately energetic and microtidal coast of NW Italy. Barnacles were removed from the sandstone bedrock in replicated plots (manipulated plots) arranged according to a hierarchical spatial design. After four months rock hardness was tested on each plot with both Schmidt hammer and Equotip Piccolo devices, as well as on a corresponding number of control plots. Data were processed by means of a multifactorial analysis of variance (ANOVA). In control plots, rock hardness tested with Schmidt hammer exceeded that measured in previously manipulated plots. Testing with Equotip yielded the opposite results. This experimental evidence confirmed that barnacles play a bio-protective role in the midlittoral at sub-surficial level, while adding the key aspect that this effect is generalizable to spatial scales ranging from a few centimeters up to tens of kilometers. In addition, our results showed, for the first time, that at surface level they can simultaneously act as bioeroders, likely causing corrosion of the rock surface by fostering dissolution of the sandstone carbonate matrix.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (331KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe current review describes electrochemical evaluation and study of copper chemical–mechanical polishing (CMP) slurries and post-CMP cleaning solutions. Electrochemical and surface analyses of commercial and new developed CMP slurries over the last decade are discussed. It is stated that the main CMP requirement needed from slurries, to provide copper passivity, is not being complied in all commercial slurries, since copper is being actively dissolved in all of them. Two novel systems based on alkaline weak acid salts (K-sorbate and K-carbonate) are being reviewed, as well. Once considering post-CMP slurries it is shown that HNO3 based solutions are highly effective in copper layers etching. Simultaneous etching of silicon oxide and copper layers can be efficiently conducted in diluted HF solutions. The composition of etching solution usually includes inhibitors, and surface active compounds. However, copper etching in aqueous solutions is usually accompanied with a deposition of corrosion products (Cu(1) compounds). Formation of such deposition is being determined electrochemically subsequent to an etching process (at OCP) in some of the recommended post-CMP cleaning solutions. Cautious consideration should be taken once choosing the most appropriate etching solution for Cu post-CMP cleaning.
Highlights•The 5-(phenylthio)-3H-pyrrole-4-carbonitriles (PPCs) act as efficient corrosion inhibitors.•Potentiodynamic study suggested that PPCs were mixed type inhibitors.•The EIS measurements suggested that PPCs form a protective covering on the metallic surface.•The results of SEM and AFM suggested that surface smoothness increases due to the formation of protective surface film.•The experimental results were well supported by theoretical calculations.AbstractThe adsorption and inhibition effects of three 5-(phenylthio)-3H-pyrrole-4-carbonitriles (PPCs) namely: 2-amino-3-methyl-3-phenyl-5-(phenylthio)-3H-pyrrole-4-carbonitrile (PPC I), 2-amino-3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-3-methyl-5-(phenylthio)-3H-pyrrole-4-carbonitrile (PPC II), and 2-amino-3-(2,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-3-methyl-5-(phenylthio)-3H-pyrrole-4-carbonitrile (PPC III) on mild steel corrosion in 1 M HCl have been studied by experimental and theoretical methods. Results showed that inhibition efficiency increases with concentration and maximum value was obtained at 50 mg/L concentration. From the results it is concluded that the PPCs inhibited mild steel corrosion in 1 M HCl by adsorbing on the metal surface. Polarization results showed that the PPCs act as anodic type inhibitors. The surface morphology study was carried out by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM). The Monte Carlo simulation were found to be in good agreement with the experimental results.
AbstractThe response of shorelines to climate change is controlled by fall and rise of the sea level and by the alteration of the coastal environment due to changing fluvial discharge and biological activity. In the Mediterranean this response is complicated by the geographic proximity of the North Atlantic and the African Monsoon climate systems, by a time and space specific interaction of eustatic and water-load components of sea level and by the mid-latitudinal time lag between orbital forcing and terrestrial response. Here, six Mediterranean coastal records are presented which contribute to our understanding of how mid-latitudinal coasts respond to orbital forcing. The sediment sequences show sharp switches between siliciclastic- and carbonate-dominated nearshore environments where carbonate-rich sediments are composed of oolitic grainstones. From modern analogues it is deduced that the oolitic sediments represent a period of relatively high annual sea-surface temperature and lack of fluvial discharge. The warm-arid period was recorded at ∼114 ka on the southeast Iberian coast, at ∼113 ka on the Levant coast, at ∼110 ka on the coast west of the Nile delta and at ∼83 ka on the north Saharan coast. It lasted 10–20 ka in east (Levant coast) and west (Iberian coast) and lasted 40 ka or more in the central-south of the east Mediterranean. Timing and duration of the coastal proxy allow inferring instantaneous and dominant response to external forcing in the east and west and delayed and prolonged response due to dominant regional forcing in the centre of the East Mediterranean. A 9 m eustatic sea-level highstand during MIS 5e is suggested with a start of the subsequent sea-level fall at ∼118 ka while evidence for multiple MIS 5e highstand and a highstand during MIS 5a remain elusive.Highlights► Mediterranean coastal response to orbital forcing during the Last Interglacial. ► Response is dominated by NAO, little evidence for African monsoon impact. ► Space-specific dominance of external forcing of coastal response. ► Mediterranean sea level change is time and space specific with few coasts picturing the eustatic component only. ► MIS 5e eustatic highstand at ∼9 m above sea level.
Highlights•Predict corrosion inhibition efficiency with a number of individual quantum chemical parameters.•Analyzing the adsorption behavior of the inhibitors by molecular dynamics simulation.•Three mentioned amines are green corrosion inhibitors.•A good correlation between the theoretical and experimental data.AbstractInhibition efficiencies of three amine derivatives (diethylenetriamine I, triethylenetetramine II, and pentaethylenehexamine III) on corrosion of carbon steel has been studied using the density functional theory method and molecular dynamic simulation in aqueous phase. Quantum chemical parameters such as EHOMO (highest occupied molecular orbital energy), ELUMO (lowest unoccupied molecular orbital energy), hardness (η), polarizability (α), dipole moment (μ), total negative charges on atoms (TNC) and molecular volume (MV) have been calculated at the B3LYP level of theory with 6-311++G** basis set. Moreover, adsorption behavior of the inhibitor molecules on Fe (110) surface has been analyzed using molecular dynamics simulation. The formation of the bonding and nonbonding interactions in systems of Fe-inhibitor molecules on Fe (110) surface followed the order III>II>I, which was in a good agreement with the experimentally determined inhibition efficiencies. The formation of bonding and nonbonding interactions in systems of Fe-inhibitor was analyzed by the radial distribution functions (RDFs). In agreement with the experimental data, theoretical results showed that the order of inhibition efficiency is III>II>I.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (272KB)Download full-size image
AbstractQuantum chemical calculations using the density functional theory (DFT) and some semi-empirical methods were performed on four sulphonamides (sulfaguanidine, sulfamethazine, sulfamethoxazole and sulfadiazine) used as corrosion inhibitors for mild steel in acidic medium to determine the relationship between molecular structure and their inhibition efficiencies. The results of the quantum chemical calculations and experimental %IE were subjected to correlation analysis and indicate that their inhibition effect are closely related to EHOMO, ELUMO, hardness, polarizability, dipole moment and charges. The %IE increased with increase in the EHOMO and decrease in EHOMO − ELUMO. The negative sign of the EHOMO values and other kinetic and thermodynamic parameters indicates that the data obtained support physical adsorption mechanism.
AbstractThe inhibiting effect of some organic compounds on the stress corrosion cracking (SCC) of a C-steel in 5% NaCl+0.5% acetic acid in the presence of 1 mM thiosulphate at 25°C was studied. The examined compounds at 0.1 mM concentration were: n-dodecylquinolinium bromide (DDQB), n-dodecylpyridinium chloride (DDPC), benzyl,stearyl,dimethylammonium chloride (BSDMAC), 1-(2-amminoethyl)-2 n-tridecyl-3 imidazoline (IMI-13), 2-n-hexyl-3 imidazoline (IMI-6), 2-n-tridecyl-3-imidazoline (IMI), N-phenyl-cinnamyliden-imine (PH-ATC). The inhibition of these compounds on the uniform corrosion was evaluated by recording anodic and cathodic polarisation curves after 1 and 24 h immersion of the electrode in the aggressive solutions. Slow strain rate tests were performed at a strain rate of 1×10−6 s−1. The SCC susceptibility degree (α) was evaluated by the ratio between percentage elongation to fracture in the test solution and that in air. The hydrogen permeation currents after 24 h of immersion of steel were determined. The examined compounds exerted an inhibiting action towards the general corrosion, ranging between 74 and 96%. The percentage inhibiting efficiencies (IE), calculated from the permeation current values of DDQB, DDPC and IMI, were almost the same as the percentage IE towards the general corrosion. In the presence of the other compounds percentage IE on the hydrogen permeation was lower than that towards the general corrosion. DDQB, DDPC and IMI were able to reduce the stimulating action of thiosulphate completely. The other compounds increased α values, but they were unable to inhibit SCC completely. The inverse linear relationship between α and hydrogen permeation current values evidenced a strict correlation between hydrogen permeation and SCC susceptibility in these solutions.
Highlights•Effects of nano-additives in diesel and biodiesel fuel reviewed in detail.•Preparation of nanofluids and characterization methods are discussed.•Stability and combustion aspects of the nano-additives are presented.•Nano-additives improves engine performance and reduces emissions.•Discussion on challenges faced by nanoparticles as fuel additive.AbstractBiodiesel is an unsurpassed alternative fuel source intended to extend the value to fossil fuels, and the longevity and cleanliness of diesel engines. It reduces the dependence on the foreign fuels and reduces the greenhouse gas emissions due to its closed carbon cycle. The plentiful advantages of biodiesel are overcome by few drawbacks such as the increase in the nitrogen oxide emission, its incompatibility with cold weather conditions, and the regular intervals of engine parts replacement such as fuel filters, fuel tanks and fuel lines due to clogging. There is a further scope for enhancement in fuel properties and to overcome the drawbacks by addition of nanoparticles as fuel additives. Recent researches on fuel additives indicated the inclusion of nano-sized particles (metallic, non-metallic, oxygenated, organic and combination) with diesel-biodiesel fuel emulsion. The results achieved demonstrated an improvement in the thermophysical properties, enhancement in the heat transfer rate, and stabilization of the fuel mixtures. Also, there was an increase in the engine performance parameters and reduction in the exhaust emissions depending on the dosage of nanofluid additives. This review paper includes the methods for preparation of nanofluids, the stability enhancement of nanofluids by various technique, several characterization methods to find the chemical bonding, nanoparticle shape, and size, dispersion of nano-additives in liquid fuel, the health effects, and applications of nanoparticles in the automotive industry.The numerous literature reviewed had some degree of indistinct and inconsistent outcomes. The experimental results from the various researchers were not generalized to reach a general accord regarding this innovative approach of fuel adulteration. The present work summarizes the literature from most recent articles on nanoparticles as a liquid fuel additive. The effect of dispersion of several nanoparticles on the enhancement in the performance characteristics and reduction in emission of a CI engine fuelled with diesel-biodiesel blends are discussed. The further scope suggests the development of an economically sustainable and feasible nanoparticle additive for diesel and biodiesel fuel. Nevertheless, few obstacles and challenges which have been recognized in this review must be addressed before they can be fully put into practice in the industrial applications.
AbstractInvestigations have been carried out on properties of coatings, differing by their pigmentation and binder, and applied on different chemical pre-treatments of the steel surface. Paints based on alkyd and alkyd-melamine binders, pigmented with zinc phosphate and modified basic zinc phosphate were applied on amorphous and crystalline phosphated steel surface and, for the comparison purpose, on degreased steel surface. The effect of the binder, the pigment and the pre-treatment of the steel surface on the protective properties of the coatings were determined by measurements of adhesion, water absorption and water permeability and by results obtained in salt spray and Prohesion tests. Coatings based on alkyd binder show a lower damage degree and good retention of adhesion in corrosion conditions, in spite of a higher water absorption and water permeability and a lower initial adhesive strength. Protective properties of coatings have been found to be highly dependent upon the substrate pre-treatment. Chemical pre-treatment of the steel substrate increases the protective properties of the system, which is particularly evident in the case of crystalline phosphating and the coating pigmented with modified basic zinc phosphate. This phenomenon can be explained by the synergism between this phosphate pigment with crystalline phosphate layer.
Highlights•Novel CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composites were synthesized via chemical methods.•Enhanced visible-light photocatalytic activities were evaluated for RhB degradation.•CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composite promotes charge separation/transfer property.•Visible-light photocatalytic mechanism of CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 was discussed.AbstractThe CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composites with various Fe concentrations (0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 5.0 and 6.0 mol%) was synthesized by homogeneous precipitation and hydrothermal methods. The as-synthesized samples were characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), Brunauer Emmett and Teller (BET)-specific surface area, field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and UV–visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS). Fe-doping into InVO4 crystal induces the distortion of the crystalline structure, the transformation of InVO4 morphology, and the new energy subband level generation of Fe between the CB and VB edge of InVO4. The electron excitation from the VB to Fe orbitals results in the decreased band gap and the extended absorption of visible-light, and thus enhances its photocatalytic performance. Visible-light-driven photocatalytic degradation of Rhodamine B (RhB) dye in water was used to evaluate the photocatalytic performance of CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composites. The results revealed that there is an optimum Fe (5.0 mol %) doping level. The composite with the optimum doping level obtains high photocatalytic activity of CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composite compared to pure CeO2 and pure InVO4 host. The increase of photocatalytic activity of CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composite was ascribed to the surface area, crystal defect, and band gap energy. Moreover, the photocatalytic enhancement is also because iron ions act as a trapping site, which results in the higher separation efficiency of photogenerated electrons and holes pairs in the CeO2/InVO4 composite. The evaluation of radical scavengers confirmed that hydroxyl radical was the main active species during the photodegradation of RhB. These synergistic effects are responsible for the enhanced photocatalytic activity of CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composite. Furthermore, the possible enhanced photocatalytic mechanism of the CeO2/Fe-doped InVO4 composite was also proposed based on the calculation of band position.Graphical abstractDownload high-res image (243KB)Download full-size image
AbstractThe effect of the ratio of the pigment volume concentration (PVC) to the critical pigment volume concentration (CPVC), denoted hereafter by Λ, on the corrosion resistance properties of paint films has been investigated by ac impedance, potential-time measurements, cathodic disbonding and traditional accelerated tests. Painted mild steel electrodes were studied during exposure to 3.5% NaCl solution for up to 60 days. Paints based on epoxy resin were prepared at different Λ values (0.73, 0.80, 0.88, 0.93, 0.98, 1.08, 1.15 and 1.24). It is concluded that, for all systems, corrosion resistance can be affected greatly by the PVC/CPVC ratio and the conclusions offered by each of the techniques used are quite similar.

